Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: Risks Related to Our Company Downgrades or the revocation of our financial strength ratings would affect our standing among brokers and customers and may cause our premiums and earnings to decrease significantly. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Each rating is subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agency. The ratings are neither an evaluation directed to our investors nor a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities. For the financial strength rating of each of our principal operating subsidiaries, please see Item 1. “Business — Our Financial Strength Ratings”. If the rating of any of our subsidiaries is revised downward or revoked, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry may suffer, and it may be more difficult for us to market our products. Specifically, any revision or revocation of this kind could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance and reinsurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business as customers and brokers that place this business move to competitors with higher financial strength ratings. Additionally, it is common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow the ceding companies to cancel the contract for the portion of our obligations if our insurance subsidiaries are downgraded below an A- by either A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s. Whether a ceding company would exercise the cancellation right (and, in the case of Allied World Reinsurance Company, as described in the paragraph below, the right to require the posting of security) would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such 27 Table of Contents downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, we cannot predict in advance the extent to which these rights would be exercised, if at all, or what effect any such cancellations or security postings would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect could be material. For example, if all ceding companies for which we have in force business as of December 31, 2011 were to exercise their cancellation rights or require the posting of security, the estimated impact could result in the return of premium, the commutation of loss reserves, the posting of collateral or a combination thereof. The unearned premium and reserve for losses and loss expenses associated with our reinsurance segment was $306.5 million and $1,313.7 million at December 31, 2011, respectively. Our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary, Allied World Reinsurance Company, does not typically post security for the reinsurance contracts it writes. In addition to the cancellation right discussed above, should the company’s A.M. Best rating or Standard & Poor’s rating be downgraded below A-, some ceding companies would have the right to require Allied World Reinsurance Company to post security for its portion of the obligations under such contracts. If this were to occur, Allied World Reinsurance Company may not have the liquidity to post security as stipulated in such reinsurance contracts. All Lloyd’s syndicates benefit from Lloyd’s central resources, including the Lloyd’s brand, its network of global licenses and the central fund. The central fund is available at the discretion of the Council of Lloyd’s to meet any valid claim that cannot be met by the resources of any member. Because all Lloyd’s policies are ultimately backed by the central fund, a single market rating can be applied. The ability of Lloyd’s syndicates to trade in certain classes of business at current levels is dependent on the maintenance of a satisfactory credit rating issued by an accredited rating agency. A. M. Best has assigned Lloyd’s a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) and Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have assigned Lloyd’s a financial strength rating of “A+” (Strong). Syndicate 2232 benefits from Lloyd’s current ratings and would be adversely affected if the current ratings were downgraded from their present levels. We also cannot assure you that A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s will not downgrade our insurance subsidiaries. Actual claims may exceed our reserves for losses and loss expenses. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to the policies we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate resolution and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined as experience develops and claims are reported and resolved. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. It is therefore possible that our reserves at any given time will prove to be inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses or loss expenses exceed our expectations and reserves reflected in our financial statements, we will be required to increase our reserves to reflect our changed expectations. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and a reduction of capital. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2011 included $157.9 million and $95.6 million of favorable (i.e., a loss reserve decrease) and adverse development (i.e., a loss reserve increase), respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. In comparison, our results for the year-ended December 31, 2010 included $369.8 million and $56.4 million of favorable and adverse development, respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $376.9 million and $128.9 million of favorable and adverse development, respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. We have estimated our net losses from catastrophes based on actuarial analyses of claims information received to date, industry modeling and discussions with individual insureds and reinsureds. Accordingly, actual losses may vary from those estimated and will be adjusted in the period in which further information becomes available. 28 Table of Contents We may experience significant losses and volatility in our financial results from catastrophic events. As a multi-line casualty and property insurer and reinsurer, we may experience significant losses from claims arising out of catastrophic events, particularly from our direct property insurance operations and our property, workers compensation and personal accident reinsurance operations. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters, including oil spills and other environmental contamination. The international geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, examples of which include floods and windstorms in Europe, hurricanes and windstorms in Mexico, Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic Coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan and Taiwan, and earthquakes in California and parts of the Midwestern United States known as the New Madrid zone. Our largest exposure to wind events is concentrated in the Southeast and Gulf Coast of the United States. Our largest exposure to earthquake events is concentrated in California. The loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency but high severity in nature. In recent years, the frequency of major catastrophes appears to have increased and may continue to increase as a result of global climate change and other factors. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of losses to the industry in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. The loss limitation methods we employ, such as establishing maximum aggregate exposed limits on policies written in key coastal and other defined geographical zones, restrictive underwriting guidelines and purchasing reinsurance, may not be sufficient protection against losses from catastrophes. In the event we do not accurately estimate losses from catastrophes that have already occurred, there is a possibility that loss reserves for such catastrophes will be inadequate to cover the losses. Because U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for catastrophes until they occur, claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, losses from catastrophic events could result in downward revisions to our financial strength ratings from the various rating agencies that cover us. The risk models we use to quantify catastrophe exposures and risk accumulations may prove inadequate in predicting all outcomes from potential catastrophe events. We use widely accepted and industry-recognized catastrophe risk modeling programs to help us quantify our aggregate exposure to any one event. As with any model of physical systems, particularly those with low frequencies of occurrence and potentially high severity of outcomes, the accuracy of the model’s predictions is largely dependent on the accuracy and quality of the data provided in the underwriting process and the judgments of our employees and other industry professionals. These models do not anticipate all potential perils or events that could result in a catastrophic loss to us. Furthermore, it is often difficult for models to anticipate and incorporate events that have not been experienced during or as a result of prior catastrophes. Accordingly, it is possible for us to be subject to events or contingencies that have not been anticipated by our catastrophe risk models and which could have a material adverse effect on our reserves and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by inflation. Our operations, like those of other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers, are susceptible to the effects of inflation because premiums are established before the ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Although we consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, our premiums may not fully offset the effects of inflation and essentially result in our under pricing the risks we insure and reinsure. Our reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as the value of replacing property and associated labor costs for the property business we write, the value of medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes theses costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We could face losses from terrorism and political unrest. We have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we generally exclude acts of terrorism from our property insurance policies and property reinsurance treaties where practicable, we provide coverage in circumstances where we believe we are adequately compensated for assuming those risks. Our trade credit and political risk insurance program protects insureds with interests in foreign jurisdictions in the event governmental action prevents them from exercising their contractual rights and may also protect their assets against physical damage perils. This may include risks arising from expropriation, forced abandonment, license cancellation, trade embargo, contract frustration, non-payment, war on land or political violence, including terrorism, revolution, insurrection and civil unrest. Political risk insurance is typically provided to financial institutions, equity investors, exporters, importers, export credit agencies and multilateral agencies in an array of industries, in connection with investments and contracts in both emerging markets and developed countries. Our trade credit and political risk insurance program also protects insureds in foreign jurisdictions against non-payment coverage on specific loan obligations as a result of commercial as well as political risk events. We attempt to manage our exposure, by among other things, setting credit limits by country, region, industry and individual counterparty and regularly reviewing our aggregate exposures. The occurrence of one or more large losses in our credit and political risk insurance portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We could face losses from pandemic diseases. A pandemic disease could also cause us to suffer significantly increased insurance losses on a variety of coverages we offer. Our reinsurance protections may only partially offset these losses. Moreover, even in cases where we seek to exclude coverage, we may not be able to completely eliminate our exposure to these events. It is impossible to predict the timing or severity of these events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. We could also suffer losses from a disruption of our business operations and our investments may suffer a decrease in value due to the occurrence of any of these events. To the extent we suffer losses from these risks, such losses could be significant. Our business and our financial results may be adversely affected by unexpected levels of loss due to climate change. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the underwriting of property insurance and reinsurance around the world. Therefore, large scale climate change (often referred to as “global warming”) as well as changing ocean temperatures could increase the frequency and severity of our loss costs related to property damage and/or business interruption due to hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, blizzards, tornadoes or other severe weather events particularly with respect to properties located in coastal areas. Additionally, if changes in climatic patterns and ocean temperature conditions continue, it is likely that such changes will further impair the ability to predict the frequency and severity of future weather-related disasters in many parts of the world. Over the longer term, such decreased predictability will create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. In addition to unexpected increases in covered losses and decreased predictability, global climate change may also give rise to new environmental liability claims against policyholders that compete in the energy, automobile manufacturing and other industries that we serve. There would be an increase in claims against policyholders of directors and officers liability of related management liability policies alleging a failure to supervise, manage or properly disclose climate change exposures. We may also incur greater-than-expected expense levels due to the costs involved in responding to regulators, rating agencies and other interested constituencies with respect to climate change and other environmental disclosures. The perceived effects of climate change on debt obligations can impact our investment mix in any one issuer, industry or region. The largest per-issuer exposure, outside of government and government-related issuers, represented less than 1% of our investment portfolio and the largest ten exposures represented less than 6% of the portfolio. 30 Table of Contents The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones (which limits our exposure to losses in any one geographic area), limiting program size for each client (which limits our exposure to losses with respect to any one client), adjusting retention levels and establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event and establishing prudent underwriting guidelines for each insurance program written (all of which limit our liability on any one policy). Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We cannot assure you that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. In particular, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the areas of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies that are designed to limit our risks, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage (which limit the range and amount of liability to which we are exposed on a policy) or choice of forum (which provides us with a predictable set of laws to govern our policies and the ability to lower costs by retaining legal counsel in fewer jurisdictions), may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims and expenses that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A prolonged recession and other adverse consequences as a result of the turmoil in the U.S. and international financial markets could harm our business, liquidity and financial condition, and our share price. The U.S. and international financial markets have been severely disrupted. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe have increased the possibility of economic slowdowns. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. These conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession, may potentially affect various aspects of our business, including the demand for and claims made under our products, our counterparty credit risk and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our share price. We may be impacted from claims relating to the financial market turmoil, including subprime and other credit and insurance exposures, beyond our current estimates. We write corporate directors and officers, errors and omissions and other insurance coverages for financial institutions and financial services companies. We also write liability coverages for fiduciaries of pension funds. In addition, we also reinsure other insurance companies that write these types of coverages. The financial institutions and financial services segment has been particularly impacted by the financial market turmoil. As a result, this industry segment has been the subject of heightened scrutiny and in some cases investigations by regulators with respect to the industry’s actions as they relate to subprime mortgages, collateralized debt obligations, structured investment vehicles, swap and derivative transactions and executive compensation. During this time, a number of U.S. and international financial institutions, insurance companies and other companies have failed, been acquired under distressed circumstances, become reliant upon the central governments of their jurisdictions for financial assistance to remain solvent and/or suffered significant declines in their stock price. Fraud or other claims may be made against financial institutions and members of other industries, including the insurance industry. These events may give rise to increased bankruptcies and increased litigation, including class action suits, which may involve our insureds. To the extent we have claims relating to these events, it could cause substantial volatility in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by the European sovereign debt crisis. Developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. The debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate. These factors could lead to an exit by a member country from the European Union. A country’s exit from the European Union could lead to a devaluation of any currency that such country introduces to replace the Euro. Our customers or brokers located in the impacted country may be unable to pay the monies due to us or may seek to renegotiate their insurance policies or reinsurance contracts in the new currency at terms that are less favorable or unfavorable to us. The resulting financial climate from such an event could also lead to greater-than-expected losses on some of the in-force insurance policies or reinsurance contracts. For example, directors and officers policies issued to financial institutions may experience higher losses as a result. We may also experience increased loss activity in our trade credit and political risk portfolio. To the extent we suffer losses from the crisis in Europe, such losses could be significant. For our reinsurance business, we depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite which may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. Because we participate in reinsurance markets, the success of our reinsurance underwriting efforts depends in part on the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions (when an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, the insurer is sometimes referred to as a “ceding company”). Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond the ceding companies’ control and for which historical experience and statistical analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. We face the risk that the ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume as reinsurance; if this occurs, the premiums that are ceded to us may not adequately compensate us and we could face significant losses on these reinsurance contracts. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the United States. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company, is not admitted as an insurer, nor is it accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. As a result, it is required to post collateral security with respect to any reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the United States in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to the insurance liabilities ceded to them. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by trustees or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd uses trust accounts and has access to up to $1.7 billion in letters of credit under two letter of credit facilities. The letter of credit facilities impose restrictive covenants, including restrictions on asset sales, limitations on the incurrence of certain liens and required collateral and financial strength levels. Violations of these or other covenants could result in the suspension of access to letters of credit or such letters of credit becoming due and payable. Our access to our existing letter of credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to these facilities to meet their commitments. Our $900 million letter of credit facility with Citibank Europe plc is on an uncommitted basis, which means Citibank Europe has agreed to offer us up to $900 million in letters of credit, but they are not contractually obligated for that full amount. Our $800 million syndicated letter of credit facility expires in November 2012. The lenders under our letter of credit facilities may not be able to meet their commitments if they become insolvent, file for bankruptcy protection or if they otherwise experience shortages of capital and liquidity. If these letter of credit facilities are not sufficient or drawable or if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is unable to renew either or both of these facilities or to arrange for trust accounts or other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, its ability to provide reinsurance to U.S.-domiciled insurers may be severely limited and adversely affected. In addition, security arrangements with ceding insurers may subject our assets to security interests or may require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment 32 Table of Contents income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the terms of the letter of credit facilities and the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which generally regulate the amount and quality of investments permitted and which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. These restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on a small number of brokers for a large portion of our revenues. The loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our top three brokers represented approximately 55% of our total gross premiums written. Marsh, Aon (including Benfield Group Ltd.) and Willis were responsible for the distribution of approximately 23%, 21% and 11%, respectively, of our total gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2011. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business produced by any one of those brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the customers that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, it is likely that, in most cases, we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when a customer pays premiums for policies written by us to a broker for further payment to us, these premiums are generally considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers we use with respect to our insurance and reinsurance business. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for our own account on commercially acceptable terms or to collect under any reinsurance we have purchased. We acquire reinsurance purchased for our own account to mitigate the effects of large or multiple losses on our financial condition. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, following the events of September 11, 2001, terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets generally became less attractive to buyers of such coverage. Similar conditions may occur at any time in the future and we may not be able to purchase reinsurance in the areas and for the amounts required or desired. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. In addition, the recent financial market turmoil may significantly adversely affect the ability of our reinsurers and retrocessionaires to meet their obligations to us. A reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or refusal to make payments under a reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance agreement with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we remain liable to the insured under the corresponding coverages written by us. Our investment performance may adversely affect our financial performance and ability to conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Ongoing conditions in the U.S. and international financial markets have and could continue to adversely affect our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our investment portfolio is overseen by our Chief Investment Officer and managed by professional investment management firms in accordance with the Investment Policy Statement approved by the Investment 33 Table of Contents Committee of the Board of Directors. Our investment performance is subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, market volatility and interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk, and credit and default risk. Additionally, with respect to some of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. Our current Investment Policy Statement constrains the amount of our investment portfolio that may be invested in alternatives (such as hedge funds and private equity). As a result, we may be subject to restrictions on redemption, which may limit our ability to withdraw funds or realize on such investments for some period of time after our initial investment. The values of, and returns on, such investments may also be more volatile. In addition, investments in hedge funds may involve certain other risks, including the limited operating history of a fund as well as risks associated with the strategies employed by the managers of the fund. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance or reinsurance policies written by us, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may arise at any time. To the extent we are unsuccessful in managing our investment portfolio within the context of our expected liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, or we may have difficulty in liquidating some of our alternative investments due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemptions noted above. This could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. If our liquidity needs or general liability profile unexpectedly change, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in its current manner. In addition, investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. While we maintain an investment portfolio with instruments rated highly by the recognized rating agencies, there are no assurances that these high ratings will be maintained. Over the past several years companies with highly-rated debt have filed for bankruptcy. The assignment of a high credit rating does not preclude the potential for the risk of default on any investment instrument. Any increase in interest rates and/or credit spread levels could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest-rate-sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on fixed income investments. Generally, investment income will be reduced during sustained periods of lower interest rates as higher-yielding fixed income securities are called, mature or are sold and the proceeds reinvested at lower rates. During periods of rising interest rates, prices of fixed income securities tend to fall and realized gains upon their sale are reduced. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in the credit spread (the difference in the percentage yield) between U.S. Treasury securities and non-U.S. Treasury securities may negatively impact our investment portfolio as we may not be able to effectively mitigate credit spread sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in credit spreads could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investment portfolio includes U.S. government agency and non-agency commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2011, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 23% of the fair value of our total investments and cash and cash equivalents, of which 15% of the fair value was invested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are generally prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, mortgage-backed securities may have declining levels of prepayments, extending their maturity and duration, thereby negatively impacting the security’s price. Our non-agency commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities are subject to delinquencies, defaults and losses on the underlying mortgage loans. While many of the factors that led to such delinquencies, 34 Table of Contents defaults and losses have moderated over the last 12 months, further deterioration is possible. Delinquencies, defaults and losses with regard to non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities are driven in part by residential property values. A decline or an extended flattening in property values may result in increased delinquencies, defaults and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investor properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. This would negatively impact the value of our securities. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011 commercial mortgage-backed securities constituted 4% of the fair value of our total investments and cash and cash equivalents. While delinquencies, defaults and losses have been slower to materialize in the commercial sector than in the residential sector, this market remains susceptible to price declines on the underlying properties based on local supply/demand factors as well as overall levels of economic activity. We continue to believe the risk is most acute in the commercial mortgage-backed securities offerings issued in 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $37 million of exposure to commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions of the 2007 and 2008 vintage. The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. During periods of market disruptions, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the recent financial environment. In such cases, the valuation of a greater number of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluations and assessments of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations quarterly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The U.S. dollar is our reporting currency and the functional currency of all of our operating subsidiaries. We enter into insurance and reinsurance contracts where the premiums receivable and losses payable are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we maintain a portion of our investments and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets in non-U.S. currencies are generally converted into U.S. dollars at the time of receipt. When we incur a liability in a non-U.S. currency, we carry such liability on our books in the original currency. These liabilities are converted from the non-U.S. currency to U.S. dollars at the time of payment. We may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately receive premiums and settle claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. 35 Table of Contents We have currency hedges in place that seek to alleviate our potential exposure to volatility in foreign exchange rates and intend to consider the use of additional hedges when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we do not seek to hedge our foreign currency risk or our hedges prove ineffective, the impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and the related restructuring efforts may, among other factors, magnify the risk of exchange rate volatility. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us on commercially favorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by insurance premiums received and sale proceeds and income from our investment portfolio are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover losses and loss expenses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or reduce our assets. Financial market volatility since 2008 has created uncertainty in the equity and credit markets and may have affected our ability, and the ability of others within our industry, to raise additional capital in the public or private markets. Any future financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financing, dilution to our shareholders could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose any member of our management team or are unable to attract and retain our personnel. Our success depends in substantial part on our ability to attract and retain our employees who generate and service our business. We rely substantially on the services of our executive management team. If we lose the services of any member of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain other talented personnel, the further implementation of our business strategy could be impeded. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently have written employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Actuary and the other members of our executive management team. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our employees. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience losses from, among other things, fraud, errors, the failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or the failure to comply with regulatory or legal requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Losses related to employee error or misconduct could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. If a program administrator were to exceed its underwriting authority or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, we could be adversely affected. We write a portion of our insurance business through relationships with program administrators, under contracts pursuant to which we authorize such program administrators to underwrite and bind business on our behalf, within guidelines we prescribe. In this structure, we rely on controls incorporated in the provisions of the program administration agreement, as well as on the administrator’s internal controls, to limit the risks insured to those which are within the prescribed parameters. Although we monitor program administrators on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our program administrators could exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. We are liable to policyholders under the terms of policies underwritten by program administrators, and to the extent such administrators exceed their authorities or otherwise breach their obligations to us, our financial condition or results of operations could be material adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents If we experience difficulties with our information technology and telecommunications systems and/or data security, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology (“IT”) and telecommunications systems. Our business and continued expansion is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as pricing, quoting and processing policies, paying claims, performing actuarial and other modeling functions. A failure of our IT and telecommunication systems or the termination of third-party software licenses we rely on in order to maintain such systems could materially impact our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary actuarial, legal, financial and other business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as internal exposures such as potentially dishonest employees, could expose our IT and data systems to security breaches that may result in liability to us, cause our data to be corrupted and cause us to commit resources, management time and money to prevent or correct security breaches. Some of our key business partners rely on our systems for critical underwriting and administration functions and interruption and/or failure of these systems could cause significant liability to them. If we do not maintain adequate IT and telecommunications systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base critical decisions, the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, litigation exposures and increased administrative expenses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. The integration of acquired companies, the growth of our operations through new lines of insurance or reinsurance business, the expansion into new geographic regions and/or the entering into joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to operational risks. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. We may experience difficulties in integrating an acquired company, which could adversely affect the acquired company’s performance or prevent us from realizing anticipated synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Expanding our lines of business, expanding our geographic reach and entering into joint ventures or partnerships also involve operational, strategic and financial risks, including retaining qualified management and implementing satisfactory budgetary, financial and operational controls. Our failure to manage successfully these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or business, or we may not realize any of the intended benefits. As a result of the higher par value of our common shares and increased shareholder approval power under Swiss law, we have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. The par value of our common shares is CHF 14.03 per share (as may be adjusted in connection with the payment of dividends by virtue of a par value reduction, as approved by our shareholders). Under Swiss law, we may not issue shares below par value. In the event we need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the par value of such shares, we will be unable to do so. As a consequence we would have to consider reducing the par value of our common shares, which in turn would reduce our ability to make tax-free distributions by par value reductions to our shareholders. We would also need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our common shares, which would require us to file a proxy statement with the SEC and convene a meeting of shareholders. This would delay any capital raising plans and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. See “Risks Related to Taxation — We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax.” Swiss law affords shareholders more powers and allows our shareholders to authorize share and participation capital that can be issued by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval. Under Swiss law, this authorization is limited to 50% of a company’s existing registered share and participation capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. Under our Articles of Association, this authorization is further limited to 20% of our existing registered share and participation capital. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions described in our Articles of Association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders 37 Table of Contents to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares. For example, we will not be able to issue preferred stock without the approval of a majority of the votes cast at a shareholder meeting. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions, such as that dividends must be approved by shareholders. There may be situations where the restrictions on capital management flexibility under Swiss law could have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. We may become subject to additional Swiss regulation. Under so-called “group supervision,” FINMA has the right to supervise us on a group-wide basis. On December 11, 2009, we received non-binding written confirmation from FINMA that it will not subject us to group supervision based primarily on the fact that most of our senior management will not reside in Switzerland. Factors which can cause FINMA to subject us to group supervision include the location of our top management and corresponding requests by foreign regulators. We cannot assure you that our future business needs may not require us to have a greater management presence in Switzerland or that FINMA will not otherwise determine to exercise group supervision over us. If subjected to group supervision, we may incur additional costs and administrative obligations. These additional costs and administrative obligations may have a substantial impact on our organizational and operational flexibility. Risks Related to the Insurance and Reinsurance Business The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of underwriting capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The occurrence, or non-occurrence, of catastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices for certain of our products. As a result of these factors, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have adverse consequences for us, including fewer policies and contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Increased competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets in which we operate could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industry are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and international insurers and reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including entities other than insurance and reinsurance companies. The availability of these non-traditional products could reduce the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, financial condition or results of operations. 38 Table of Contents The effects of emerging claims and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance and reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger defense costs, settlements and jury awards in cases involving professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance; and • a trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in class action litigation related to claims handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Compliance by our insurance subsidiaries with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products. The insurance and regulatory environment, in particular for offshore insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States, various states within the United States and the United Kingdom. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changes in laws and regulations on our operations. The cost of complying with any new legal requirements affecting our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations. They also may not be able to fully comply with, or to obtain appropriate exemptions from, the laws and regulations applicable to them. Any failure to comply with applicable law or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in restrictions on either the ability of the company in question, as well as potentially its affiliates, to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate or on brokers on which we rely to produce business for us. In addition, any such failure to comply with applicable laws or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, is registered as a Class 4 Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermudian statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies rather than shareholders or noteholders. Among other things, those statutes and regulations: • require Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd to maintain minimum levels of capital and surplus, • impose liquidity requirements which restrict the amount and type of investments it may hold, • prescribe solvency standards that it must meet, and • restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital and provide for the performance of periodic examinations of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd and its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd to write new business or distribute funds. Although it conducts its operations from Bermuda, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is not authorized to directly underwrite local risks in Bermuda. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd also operates branch offices in Hong Kong, Singapore and Labuan, which offices are regulated by the Office of the Insurance Commissioner in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Labuan Financial Services Authority, respectively. 39 Table of Contents Our U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Company (U.S.) Inc. and Darwin National Assurance Company, each a Delaware domiciled subsidiary, Allied World National Assurance Company and Allied World Reinsurance Company, each a New Hampshire domiciled subsidiary, and Darwin Select Insurance Company and Vantapro Specialty Insurance Company, each an Arkansas domiciled subsidiary, are subject to the statutes and regulations of their relevant state of domicile as well as any other state in the United States where they conduct business. In the states where the companies are admitted, the companies must comply with all insurance laws and regulations, including insurance rate and form requirements. Insurance laws and regulations may vary significantly from state to state. In those states where the companies act as surplus lines carriers, the states’ regulation focuses mainly on the company’s solvency. Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, an Irish domiciled insurer, operates within the E.U. non-life insurance legal and regulatory framework as established under the Non-Life Directive, and operates a branch in London, England. Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited is required to operate in accordance with the provisions of the Irish Insurance Acts and Regulations and the requirements of the CBI. Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited, an Irish domiciled reinsurer, is regulated by the CBI pursuant to the Central Bank Acts 1942 to 2010, all statutory instruments relating to reinsurance made or adopted under the European Communities Acts 1972 to 2009, and the provisions of the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations 2006 (which transposed the E.U. Reinsurance Directive into Irish law) and operates branches in London, England and Zug, Switzerland. Pursuant to the provisions of these regulations, reinsurance undertakings may, subject to the satisfaction of certain formalities, carry on reinsurance business in other E.U. member states either directly from the home member state (on a freedom to provide services basis) or through local branches (by way of permanent establishment). Allied World Assurance Company, AG, a Swiss domiciled insurer and reinsurer located in Zug, is regulated by FINMA. Our Bermuda operating company could become subject to regulation in the United States. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda operating company is not admitted as an insurer, nor accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2011, more than 72% of the gross premiums written by Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, however, are derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts entered into with entities domiciled in the United States. The insurance laws of each state in the United States regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within the state’s jurisdiction by foreign insurers. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd conducts its business through its Bermuda office and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not solicit insurance business, resolve claims or conduct other insurance business, in the United States. While Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States, we cannot be certain that inquiries or challenges to our insurance and reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. It is possible that, if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd were to become subject to any laws of this type at any time in the future, we would not be in compliance with the requirements of those laws. Our holding company structure and regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG is a holding company, and as such has no substantial operations of its own. It does not have any significant assets other than its ownership of the shares of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from subsidiaries are expected to be the sole source of funds for Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG to meet any ongoing cash requirements and to pay any dividends to shareholders. Swiss Law Under Swiss law, dividends may be paid out only if we have sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years or if we have legal reserves, each as will be presented on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements prepared in accordance with Swiss law. Payments out of the share and participation capital (in other 40 Table of Contents words, the aggregate par value of our share and participation capital) in the form of dividends are not allowed; however, payments out of share and participation capital may be made by way of a capital reduction to achieve a similar result as the payment of dividends. The affirmative vote of shareholders holding a majority of the votes cast at a shareholder meeting must approve reserve reclassifications and distributions of dividends. Our Board of Directors may propose to shareholders that a dividend be paid but cannot itself authorize the dividend. In addition, our shareholders may propose dividends without any dividend proposal by the Board of Directors. Under Swiss law, upon satisfaction of all legal requirements (including shareholder approval of a par value reduction as described in this proposal), we will be required to submit an application to the Swiss Commercial Register to register each applicable par value reduction. Without effective registration of the applicable par value reduction with the Swiss Commercial Register, we will not be able to proceed with the payment of any installment of any dividend. We cannot assure you that the Swiss Commercial Register will approve the registration of any applicable par value reduction. Under Swiss law, if our general capital reserves amount to less than 20% of the share and participation capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register (i.e., 20% of the aggregate par value of our capital), then at least 5% of our annual profit must be retained as general reserves. Swiss law permits us to accrue additional general reserves. In addition, we are required to create a special reserve on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements in the amount of the purchase price of voting shares and non-voting shares we or any of our subsidiaries repurchases, which amount may not be used for dividends. Swiss companies generally must maintain separate audited statutory financial statements for the purpose of, among other things, determining the amounts available for the return of capital to shareholders, including by way of a distribution of dividends. Amounts available for the return of capital as indicated on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements may be materially different from amounts reflected in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. Our auditor must confirm that a dividend proposal made to shareholders complies with Swiss law and our Articles of Association. We are required under Swiss law to declare any dividends and other capital distributions in Swiss francs. We have made and intend to continue to make any dividend payments to holders of our common shares in U.S. dollars. Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, our transfer agent, will be responsible for paying the U.S. dollars to registered holders of voting shares and non-voting participation certificates, less amounts subject to withholding for taxes. As a result, shareholders may be exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar—Swiss franc exchange rate between the date used for purposes of calculating the Swiss franc amount of any proposed dividend or par value reduction and the relevant payment date. Bermuda Law Bermuda law, including Bermuda insurance regulations and the Companies Act, restricts the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by our Bermuda entities, unless specified requirements are met. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is prohibited from paying dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown in its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) without prior BMA approval. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is also prohibited from declaring or paying dividends without the approval of the BMA if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd failed to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of the previous financial year. Furthermore, in order to reduce its total statutory capital by 15% or more, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd would require the prior approval of the BMA. In addition, Bermuda corporate law prohibits a company from declaring or paying a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (i) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (ii) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities, its issued share capital and its share premium accounts. U.S. and Irish Law In addition, our U.S. and Irish insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay any dividends. 41 Table of Contents In general, a U.S. insurance company subsidiary may not pay an “extraordinary” dividend or distribution until 30 days after the applicable insurance regulator has received notice of the intended payment and has not objected to, or has approved, the payment within the 30-day period. In general, an “extraordinary” dividend or distribution is defined by these laws and regulations as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: (a) 10% of the insurer’s statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end; or (b) or the statutory net income during the prior calendar year. The laws and regulations of some of these U.S. jurisdictions also prohibit an insurer from declaring or paying a dividend except out of its earned surplus. For example, payments of dividends by U.S. insurance companies are subject to restrictions on statutory surplus pursuant to state law. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to such subsidiaries’ policyholders. Without the consent of the CBI, Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited are not permitted to reduce the level of their capital, may not make any dividend payments, may not make inter-company loans and must maintain a minimum solvency margin. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of these companies to declare and pay dividends. In addition, we have insurance subsidiaries that are the parent company for other insurance subsidiaries, and dividends and other distributions are subject to multiple layers of the regulations discussed above as funds are pushed up to our ultimate parent company. The inability of any of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to transfer capital from one subsidiary to another and our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, Allied World Bermuda has senior notes outstanding. The inability of any of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Allied World Bermuda to make payments on the outstanding senior notes could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted healthcare reform legislation that could have a material impact on our business. Our U.S. insurance segment and our international insurance segment derive substantial revenues from healthcare liability underwriting in the United States, that is, providing insurance to individuals and institutions that participate in the U.S. healthcare delivery infrastructure. U.S. healthcare legislation in 2010 will effect far-reaching changes in the healthcare delivery system and the healthcare cost reimbursement structure in the United States and could negatively impact our healthcare liability business. Additionally, future healthcare proposals could include tort reform provisions under which plaintiffs would be restricted in their ability to bring suit against healthcare providers, which could negatively impact the demand for our healthcare liability products. While the impact of this healthcare legislation or future healthcare proposals on our business is difficult to predict, any material changes in how healthcare providers insure their malpractice liability risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), which could have an impact on our business. The Dodd-Frank Act, which effects sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States, was enacted in July 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Financial Services Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) and in limited instances authorizes the federal preemption of certain state insurance laws. The FSOC and FIO are authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the U.S. insurance industry and the significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance market. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the U.S. insurance business is not clear; however, our business could be affected by changes to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies. 42 Table of Contents Other legislative, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by U.S. federal and individual state governments as well as an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Governmental authorities in the United States and worldwide seem increasingly interested in the potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful, new risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry, and while we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target; • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • expand the scope of coverage under existing policies; • increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; • establish a new federal insurance regulator or financial industry systemic risk regulator; • revise laws and regulations under which we operate, including a potential change to U.S. tax laws to disallow or limit the current tax deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda insurance subsidiary for reinsurance protections it provides to our U.S. subsidiaries; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another. With respect to international measures, an E.U. directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers (“Solvency II”) which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009, may affect our insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II by E.U. member states is anticipated at the beginning of 2014. Implementing those measures necessary for compliance with the requirements of Solvency II may require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, the capital and solvency margin requirements of Solvency II may lead to either an increase or decrease of the capital required by our E.U. domiciled insurers in order that they comply with Solvency II. Solvency II provides for the supervision of insurers and reinsurers on both a solo (entity level) and group basis. In respect of our non-E.U. subsidiaries engaging in E.U. insurance or reinsurance business, should the regulatory regime in which they are operating not be deemed equivalent to that established within the E.U. pursuant to Solvency II, additional capital requirements may be imposed in order that such companies may continue to insure or reinsure E.U. domiciled risk/cedents. We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal insurance subsidiary is domiciled in, and operates exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading E.U. countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position with respect to its regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. 43 Table of Contents Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, may require considerable additional expense to comply with, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparison purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted, but may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Future sales of our common shares may adversely affect the market price. As of February 21, 2012, we had 36,835,178 common shares outstanding. Up to an additional 2,607,942 common shares may be issuable upon the vesting and exercise of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based equity awards. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) to register common shares issued or reserved for issuance under the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG Third Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Option Plan, the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG Third Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG Third Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) and the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG Amended and Restated 2008 Employee Share Purchase Plan. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding stock options, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale to the public. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that sales of this type could occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Our Articles of Association contain restrictions on voting, ownership and transfers of our common shares. Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by our common shares. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our Board of Directors may refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights based on certain grounds, including if the holder would, directly or indirectly, formally, constructively or beneficially own (as described in Articles 8 and 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register. In addition, our Board of Directors shall reject entry of holders of voting shares as shareholders with voting rights in the share register or shall decide on their deregistration when the acquirer or shareholder upon request does not expressly state that it has acquired or holds the voting shares for its own account and benefit. Furthermore, our Board of Directors may cancel, with retroactive application, the registration of a shareholder with voting rights if the initial registration was on the basis of false information in the shareholder’s application. Shareholders registered without voting rights may not participate in or vote at our shareholders meetings, but will be entitled to dividends, preemptive rights and liquidation proceeds. Only shareholders that are registered as shareholders with voting rights on the relevant record date are permitted to participate in and vote at a shareholders meeting. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Association could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Articles of Association contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, 44 Table of Contents these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. For example, the following provisions in our Articles of Association could have such an effect: • the election of our directors is staggered, meaning that members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year, thus limiting a shareholder’s ability to replace directors; • shareholders whose shares represent 10% or more of our total voting shares will be reduced to less than 10% of the total voting power. Conversely, shareholders owning less than 10% of the total voting power may gain increased voting power as a result of these cutbacks; • our directors may decline the registration of a shareholder as a shareholder with voting rights in the share register if and to the extent such shareholder owns or otherwise controls alone or together with others 10% of our total voting rights or if such shareholder refuses to confirm to us that it has acquired the voting shares for its own account and benefit; and • at any time until November 30, 2012, our Board of Directors has the power to issue a number of voting shares up to 20% of our share capital registered in the Swiss Commercial Register and to limit or withdraw the preemptive rights of the existing shareholders in various circumstances. As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. Swiss law differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our Articles of Association, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of Swiss corporate law or our Articles of Association, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Holdings is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Switzerland. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by Swiss counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts in Switzerland would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Switzerland against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Swiss counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Switzerland providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Swiss courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Switzerland, it may be difficult for investors to recover against us based upon such judgments. 45 Table of Contents There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of our Bermuda exempted companies. Before any shareholder acquires 10% or more of the voting shares, either directly or indirectly, of any of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, that shareholder must file an acquisition statement with and obtain prior approval from the domiciliary insurance commissioner of the respective company. Similar provisions apply to our Lloyd’s corporate member. Any company or individual that, together with its or his associates, directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a Lloyd’s corporate member or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such Lloyd’s corporate member or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired control for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such Lloyd’s corporate member or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. In such a case, the controlling entity would be required to provide notice to Lloyd’s. Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of our non-U.S. companies could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our non-U.S. companies, including our Swiss, Bermuda and Irish companies, have operated and will operate their respective businesses in a manner that will not cause them to be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on specified investment income from U.S. sources) on the basis that none of them are engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, there are no definitive standards under current law as to those activities that constitute a U.S. trade or business and the determination of whether a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. If any of the non-U.S. companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and does not qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty, such company may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at regular corporate rates on its premium income from U.S. sources and investment income that is effectively connected with its U.S. trade or business. In addition, a U.S. federal branch profits tax at the rate of 30% may be imposed on the earnings and profits attributable to such income. All of the premium income from U.S. sources and a significant portion of investment income of such company, as computed under Section 842 of the Code, requiring that a foreign company carrying on a U.S. insurance or reinsurance business have a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risks insured or reinsured by such company, may be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes. If Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, or any Bermuda insurance subsidiary we form or acquire in the future is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualifies for benefits under the United States-Bermuda tax treaty, U.S. federal income taxation of such subsidiary will depend on whether (i) it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment and (ii) the relief from taxation under the treaty generally applies to non-premium income. We believe that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether an insurance company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profit tax at the rate of 30% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. Furthermore, although the provisions of the treaty clearly apply to premium income, it is uncertain whether they generally apply to other income of a Bermuda insurance company. Therefore, if a Bermuda insurance subsidiary of our company qualifies for benefits under the treaty and does not maintain a U.S. permanent establishment but is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, and the treaty is interpreted not to apply to income other than premium income, such subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes on its investment and other non-premium income as described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, a Bermuda subsidiary will qualify for benefits under the treaty only if more than 50% of 46 Table of Contents its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. If any of our Swiss or Irish companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualify for benefits under the relevant income tax treaty with the United States, U.S. federal income taxation of such company will depend on whether it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. We believe that each such company has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether a non-U.S. company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that any of such companies maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, the company will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profits tax at the rate of 5% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. U.S. federal income tax, if imposed, will be based on effectively connected or attributable income of a non-U.S. company computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that all deductions and credits claimed by a non-U.S. company in a taxable year can be disallowed if the company does not file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year. Penalties may be assessed for failure to file such return. None of our non-U.S. companies filed U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 and 2001 taxable years. However, we have filed protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis for each non-U.S. company for subsequent years in order to preserve our right to claim tax deductions and credits in such years if any of such companies is determined to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If any of our non-U.S. companies is subject to such U.S. federal taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in connection with our interaffiliate arrangements. Our U.S. subsidiaries reinsure a significant portion of their insurance policies with Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. While we believe that the terms of these reinsurance arrangements are arm’s length, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that the payments made by the U.S. subsidiaries with respect to such arrangements exceed arm’s length amounts. In such case, our U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as realizing additional income that may be subject to additional U.S. income tax, possibly with interest and penalties. Such excess amount may also be deemed to have been distributed as dividends to the indirect parent of the U.S. subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, in which case this deemed dividend will also be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 5%, assuming that the parent is eligible for benefits under the United States-Ireland income tax treaty (or a withholding tax of 30% if the parent is not so eligible). If any of these U.S. taxes are imposed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if legislation is enacted in the U.S. that limits or eliminates our ability to enter into interaffiliate arrangements, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or pay dividends out of qualifying additional paid-in-capital, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements 47 Table of Contents for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or, pay a dividend out of qualifying additional paid-in-capital, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes. The repurchase of our shares to be held in treasury will generally not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, under Swiss law, we are generally prohibited from holding in treasury an aggregate amount of voting shares and non-voting shares in excess of 10% of our aggregate share capital, which could limit our ability to repurchase our shares in the future. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation with respect to income of our non-U.S. companies and ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of our shares under the controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) rules. Generally, each “United States shareholder” of a CFC will be subject to (i) U.S. federal income taxation on its ratable share of the CFC’s subpart F income, even if the earnings attributable to such income are not distributed, provided that such “United States shareholder” holds directly or through non-U.S. entities shares of the CFC; and (ii) potential ordinary income characterization of gains from the sale or exchange of the directly owned shares of the non-U.S. corporation. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns directly, through non-U.S. entities, or under applicable constructive ownership rules, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of any non-U.S. company will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” An insurance company is classified as a CFC only if its “United States shareholders” own 25% or more of the vote or value of its stock. Although our non-U.S. companies may be or become CFCs, for the following reasons we believe it is unlikely that any U.S. person holding our shares directly, or through non-U.S. entities, would be subject to tax as a “United States shareholder.” First, although certain of our principal U.S. shareholders previously owned 10% or more of our common shares, no such shareholder currently owns more than 10%. We will be classified as a CFC only if United States shareholders own 25% or more of our stock; one United States shareholder alone will not be subject to tax on subpart F income unless that shareholder owns 25% or more of our stock or there is at least one other United States shareholder that in combination with the first United States shareholder owns 25% or more of our common stock. Second, our Articles of Association provide that no individual or legal entity may, directly or through Constructive Ownership (as defined in Article 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register and authorize our Board of Directors to refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights under certain circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that the provisions of the Articles of Association referenced in this paragraph will operate as intended or that we will be otherwise successful in preventing a U.S. person from exceeding, or being deemed to exceed, these voting limitations. Accordingly, U.S. persons who hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the related person insurance income (“RPII”) rules. Our non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may currently insure and reinsure and may continue to insure and reinsure directly or indirectly certain of our U.S. shareholders and persons related to such shareholders. We believe that U.S. persons that hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to the income realized in connection with such insurance and reinsurance prior to distribution of earnings attributable to such income either on the basis (i) that RPII, determined on a gross basis, realized by each non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiary will be less than 20% of its gross insurance income in each taxable year; or (ii) that at all times during the year U.S. insureds hold less than 20% of the combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote and hold less than 20% of the total value of our shares. However, the identity of all of our shareholders, as well as some of the factors that determine the extent of RPII in any period, may be beyond our knowledge or control. For example, we may be considered to insure indirectly the risk of our shareholder if an unrelated company that insured such risk in the first instance reinsures such risk with us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping 48 Table of Contents the RPII realized by the non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit in each taxable year. Furthermore, even if we are successful in keeping the RPII or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish that fact to the satisfaction of the U.S. tax authorities. If we are unable to establish that the RPII of any non-U.S. insurance or reinsurance subsidiary is less than 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, and no other exception from the RPII rules applies, each U.S. person who owns our shares, directly or through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year will be generally required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of us by U.S. insureds is below 20%) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and these rules appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret these rules in this manner or that the proposed regulations addressing the RPII rules will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). A U.S. tax-exempt entity holding our shares generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to dividends and gains on our shares, provided that such entity does not purchase our shares with borrowed funds. However, if a U.S. tax-exempt entity realizes income with respect to our shares under the CFC or RPII rules, as discussed above, such entity will be generally subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to such income as UBTI. Accordingly, U.S. tax-exempt entities that are potential investors in our shares should consider the possible application of the CFC and RPII rules. You may be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of our shares under the passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) rules. We believe that U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares under the PFIC rules. We expect that our insurance subsidiaries will be predominantly engaged in, and derive their income from the active conduct of, an insurance business and will not hold reserves in excess of reasonable needs of their business, and therefore qualify for the insurance exception from the PFIC rules. However, the determination of the nature of such business and the reasonableness of such reserves is inherently factual. Furthermore, we cannot assure you, as to what positions the IRS or a court might take in the future regarding the application of the PFIC rules to us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered to be a PFIC. If we are considered to be a PFIC, U.S. persons holding our shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares. Accordingly, each U.S. person who is considering an investment in our shares should consult his or her tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Application of a published IRS Revenue Ruling with respect to our insurance or reinsurance arrangements can materially adversely affect us. The IRS published Revenue Ruling 2005-40 (the “Ruling”) addressing the requirement of adequate risk distribution among insureds in order for a primary insurance arrangement to constitute insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS successfully contends that our insurance or reinsurance arrangements, including 49 Table of Contents such arrangements with affiliates of our principal shareholders, and with our U.S. subsidiaries, do not provide for adequate risk distribution under the principles set forth in the Ruling, we could be subject to material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Two of our subsidiaries, Allied World Capital (Europe) Limited and 2232 Services Limited, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and, are therefore, subject to tax in the United Kingdom. None of our other companies are incorporated in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in the United Kingdom. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies currently intend to manage our affairs so that none of our other companies are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. The rules governing the taxation of foreign companies operating in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency were amended by the Finance Act 2003. The current rules apply to the accounting periods of non-U.K. resident companies which start on or after January 1, 2003. Accordingly, a non-U.K. resident company will only be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. In that case, the company is, in broad terms, taxable on the profits and gains attributable to the permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Broadly a company will have a permanent establishment if it has a fixed place of business in the United Kingdom through which the business of the company is wholly or partly carried on or if an agent acting on behalf of the company has and habitually exercises authority in the United Kingdom to do business on behalf of the company. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited (which have established branches in the United Kingdom), currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, carry on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. If any of our U.S. subsidiaries were trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and the U.S. subsidiaries were to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States, only those profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom would be subject to U.K. corporation tax. If Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd was trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and it was entitled to the benefits of the tax treaty between Ireland and the United Kingdom, it would only be subject to U.K. taxation on its profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. The branches established in the United Kingdom by Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited constitute a permanent establishment of those companies and the profits attributable to those permanent establishments are subject to U.K. corporation tax. The United Kingdom has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. There are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the United Kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) on income arising in the United Kingdom (including the profits of a trade carried on there even if that trade is not carried on through a branch agency or permanent establishment), but each of our companies currently operates in such a manner that none of our companies will fall within the charge to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. If any of our non-U.K. companies were treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, were to be treated as carrying on a trade in the 50 Table of Contents United Kingdom through a branch agency or of having a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to Irish tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Companies resident in Ireland are generally subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. None of our companies, other than our Irish companies and Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, which resides in Ireland, should be treated as being resident in Ireland unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in Ireland. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, and is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, currently intend to operate in such a manner so that the central management and control of each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is exercised outside of Ireland. Nevertheless, because central management and control is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that the central management and control of any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd or our Irish companies, is exercised in Ireland. Should this occur, such company will be subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. The trading income of a company not resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes can also be subject to Irish corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Each of our companies currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies carry on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor Irish legislation definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is trading through a branch or agency in Ireland. Should this occur, such companies will be subject to Irish corporation tax on profits attributable to that branch or agency. If any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, were treated as resident in Ireland for Irish corporation tax purposes, or as carrying on a trade in Ireland through a branch or agency, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various E.U. Member States have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the E.U. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the E.U. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. Should, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If investments held by our Irish companies are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. Our Irish companies intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by our Irish companies. If, however, investment income earned by our Irish companies exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 51 Table of Contents We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has given our Bermuda subsidiaries an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to such entities or their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 52 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND OTHER TERMS Admitted insurer An insurer that is licensed or authorized to write insurance in a particular state; to be distinguished from an insurer eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance on risks located within a jurisdiction. Assumed reinsurance That portion of a risk that a reinsurer accepts from an insurer in return for a stated premium. Attachment point The loss point of which an insurance or reinsurance policy becomes operative and below which any losses are retained by either the insured or other insurers or reinsurers, as the case may be. Capacity The maximum percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions. Case reserves Loss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims. Casualty lines Insurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others. Catastrophe exposure or event A severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophe reinsurance A form of excess-of-loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a “catastrophe cover.” These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover other types of insurance losses such as workers’ compensation policies. Cede, cedent, ceding company When an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “ceding company” or “cedent.” Commercial coverage Insurance products that are sold to entities and individuals in their business or professional capacity, and which are intended for other than the insured’s personal or household use. Deductible The amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Retention.” Direct insurance Insurance sold by an insurer that contracts directly with the insured, as distinguished from reinsurance. 53 Table of Contents Directors and officers liability Insurance that covers liability for corporate directors and officers for wrongful acts, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy. Earned premiums or Premiums earned That portion of premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both statutory accounting practice and U.S. GAAP. Employment practices liability insurance Insurance that primarily provides liability coverage to organizations and their employees for losses arising from acts of discrimination, harassment and retaliation against current and prospective employees of the organization. Excess and surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers; or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. Excess layer Insurance to cover losses in one or more layers above a certain amount with losses below that amount usually covered by the insured’s primary policy and its self-insured retention. Excess-of-loss reinsurance Reinsurance that indemnifies the insured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified amount or “retention.” Exclusions Provisions in an insurance or reinsurance policy excluding certain risks or otherwise limiting the scope of coverage. Exposure The possibility of loss. A unit of measure of the amount of risk a company assumes. Facultative reinsurance The reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately negotiated. Fiduciary liability insurance Insurance that primarily provides liability coverage to fiduciaries of employee benefit and welfare plans for losses arising from the breach of any fiduciary duty owed to plan beneficiaries. Frequency The number of claims occurring during a specified period of time. General casualty Insurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others. Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance and reinsurance written during a given period. Healthcare liability or Healthcare lines Insurance coverage, often referred to as medical malpractice insurance, which addresses liability risks of doctors, surgeons, nurses, other healthcare professionals and the institutions (hospitals, clinics) in which they practice. Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) reserves Reserves established by us for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us as well as for changes in the values of claims that have been reported to us but are not yet settled. In-force Policies that have not expired or been terminated and for which the insurer remains on risk as of a given date. 54 Table of Contents Limits or gross maximum limits The maximum amount that an insurer or reinsurer will insure or reinsure for a specified risk, a portfolio of risks or on a single insured entity. The term also refers to the maximum amount of benefit payable for a given claim or occurrence. Loss development The difference between the original loss as initially reserved by an insurer or reinsurer and its subsequent evaluation at a later date or at the time of its closure. Loss development occurs because of inflation and time lags between the occurrence of claims and the time they are actually reported to an insurer or reinsurer. To account for these increases, a “loss development factor” or multiplier is usually applied to a claim or group of claims in an effort to more accurately project the ultimate amount that will be paid. Losses incurred The total losses and loss adjustment expenses paid, plus the change in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including IBNR, sustained by an insurance or reinsurance company under its insurance policies or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. Losses and loss expenses “Losses” are an occurrence that is the basis for submission or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the insurance policy or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. “Loss expenses” are the expenses incurred by an insurance or reinsurance company in settling a loss. Loss reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this Form 10-K, “loss reserves” is meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses. Loss year The year to which a claim is attributed based upon the terms in the underlying policy or contract. All years referred to are years ending December 31. Net premiums earned The portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was recognized as income during such period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written, less premiums ceded to reinsurers. Paid losses Claim amounts paid to insureds or ceding companies. Per occurrence limitations The maximum amount recoverable under an insurance or reinsurance policy as a result of any one event, regardless of the number of claims. Primary insurance (primary layer) Insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A primary insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a primary insurance layer typically assume an element of regular loss frequency. Probable maximum loss (“PML”) An estimate of the loss on any given insurance policy or group of policies at some pre-defined probability of occurrence. The probability of occurrence is usually expressed in terms of the number of years between loss events of that size (e.g., 1 in 100 years or 1 in 200 years). 55 Table of Contents Producer A licensed professional, often referred to as either an insurance agent, insurance broker or intermediary, who acts as intermediary between the insurance carrier and the insured or reinsured (as the case may be). Product liability Insurance that provides coverage to manufacturer and/or distributors of tangible goods against liability for personal injury caused if such products are unsafe or defective. Professional liability Insurance that provides liability coverage to directors and officers, attorneys, doctors, accountants and other professionals who offer services to the general public and claim expertise in a particular area greater than the ordinary layperson for their negligence or malfeasance. Property catastrophe coverage In reinsurance, coverage that protects the ceding company against accumulated losses in excess of a stipulated sum that arise from a catastrophic event such as an earthquake, fire or windstorm. “Catastrophe loss” generally refers to the total loss of an insurer arising out of a single catastrophic event. Quota share reinsurance A proportional reinsurance treaty in which the ceding company cedes an agreed-on percentage of every risk it insures that falls within a class or classes of business subject to the treaty. Reinsurance The practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance that it has issued. Reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this report, “reserves” are meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses. Retention The amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Deductible.” Retrocessional coverage A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity. Run-off Liability of an insurance or reinsurance company for existing claims that it expects to pay in the future and for which a loss reserve has been established. 56 Table of Contents Self-insured A term which describes a risk, or part of a risk, retained by the insured in lieu of transferring the risk to an insurer. A policy deductible or retention feature allows a policyholder to self-insure a portion of an exposure and thereby reduce its risk-transfer costs. Specialty lines A term used in the insurance and reinsurance industry to describe types of insurance or classes of business that require specialized expertise to underwrite. Insurance and reinsurance for these classes of business is not widely available and is typically purchased from the specialty lines divisions of larger insurance companies or from small specialty lines insurers. Subpart F income Insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) and foreign personal holding company income (including interest, dividends and other passive investment income). Surplus (or statutory surplus) As determined under statutory accounting principles, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all of the “admitted” assets (i.e., those permitted by regulation to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet). Surplus is also referred to as “statutory surplus” or “surplus as regards policyholders” for statutory accounting purposes. Surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. “Swing-rated” reinsurance contract A reinsurance contract, that links the ultimate amount of ceded premium to the ultimate loss ratio on the reinsured business. This type of reinsurance contract enables the cedent to retain a greater portion of premium if the ultimate loss ratio develops at a level below the initial loss threshold set by the reinsurers, but requires a higher amount of ceded premium if the ultimate loss ratio develops above the initial threshold. Treaties Reinsurance contracts under which the ceding company agrees to cede and the reinsurer agrees to assume risks of a particular class or classes of business. Treaty year The year in which the contract incepts. Exposure from contracts incepting during the current treaty year will potentially affect both the current loss year as well future loss years. Ultimate loss Total of all expected settlement amounts, whether paid or reserved together with any associated loss adjustment expenses, and is the estimated total amount of loss at the measurement date. For purposes of this Form 10-K, “ultimate loss” is the sum of paid losses, case reserves and IBNR. Underwriter An employee of an insurance or reinsurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business. Underwriting results The pre-tax profit or loss experienced by an insurance company that is calculated by deducting net losses and loss expenses, net acquisition costs and general and administration expenses from net 57 Table of Contents premiums earned. This profit or loss calculation includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but excludes investment income. Unearned premium The portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term or underlying risk. Working layer Primary insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A working layer insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a working layer typically assume an element of loss frequency. Written premium The premium entered on an insurer’s books for a policy issued during a given period of time, whether coverage is provided only during that period of time or also during subsequent periods. 58 Table of Contents 