Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or 8 Table of Contents incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We may be Adversely Impacted by the Unprecedented Volatility in the Financial Markets. Dramatic declines in the national housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. Similarly, declining real estate values can adversely impact the carrying value of real estate secured loans. The current downturn in the economy, the slowdown in the real estate market, and declines in some real estate values have had a direct and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Stabilization Act. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We have been required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We may have to pay even higher premiums in the future. We may have to pay even higher premiums in the future. Further Declines in the Residential Housing Market would have a Negative Impact on Our Residential Housing Market Income. The Company earns revenue from residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings from RML Holding Company. A slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In 2010, the Company expects that its revenues from residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings will decline due to a decline in refinance activity at RML Holding Company and the continued slowdown in the residential housing market. Any such decline in interest income and fees may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our Loan Loss Allowance may not be Adequate to Cover Future Loan Losses, which may Adversely affect Our Earnings. We have established a reserve for probable losses we expect to incur in connection with loans in our credit portfolio. This allowance reflects our estimate of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. Our determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is highly subjective; although management personnel apply criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If our loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, we may suffer unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance is inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our net income and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents We have a Significant Concentration in Real Estate Lending. The Sustained Downturn in Real Estate Within Our Markets has had and is Expected to Continue to have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations. Approximately 73% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2009 consisted of loans secured by commercial and residential real estate located in Alaska. A slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted residential real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. During 2008, we experienced a significant increase in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in our residential real estate portfolio. Although non-performing assets decreased from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, we will see a further increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. Additionally, if real estate values decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. If any of these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses will increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Further, approximately 46% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2009 consisted of commercial real estate loans. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios are increasing significantly. While our investments in these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential construction and land development loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will remain stable. Commercial construction and commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a consumer loan. These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in our loan loss allowance, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Real Estate Values may Continue to Decrease Leading to Additional and Greater than Anticipated Loan Charge-Offs and Valuation Write Downs on Our other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”) Properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for defaulted loans as part of our business. At December 31, 2009, the Bank held $17.4 million of OREO properties, many of which consist of residential construction and land development loans. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. Our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Deposit Insurance Premium could be Substantially Higher in the Future, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Future Earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC insures deposits up to statutory limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Either an increase in the Bank’s risk category or adjustments to the base assessment rates, limits applicable to and/or a significant special assessment could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments may cause the premiums assessed on us by the FDIC to increase and may increase our noninterest expense. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC Board of Directors determined deposit insurance assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009 at 12 to 14 basis points per $100 of deposits. Beginning April 1, 2009, the rates increased to 12 to 16 basis points per $100 of deposits. Additionally, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule imposing a special emergency assessment as of June 30, 2009, payable September 30, 2009, of 5 basis points on each FDIC insured institution’s assets, less Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009, but the amount of the assessment is capped at 10 basis points of domestic deposits. The final rule also allows the FDIC to impose additional special emergency assessments on or after September 30, 2009, of up to 5 basis points per quarter, if necessary to maintain public confidence in FDIC insurance. The FDIC has indicated that a second assessment is probable. These higher FDIC assessment rates and special assessments will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods; including whether and when additional special assessments will occur, in the event the economic crisis continues. We also participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP program, the FDIC is 10 Table of Contents authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies as well. These changes, along with the full utilization of our FDIC deposit insurance assessment credit in early 2009, may cause the premiums and TLGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could increase our noninterest expense in 2010 and for the foreseeable future. Changes in Market Interest Rates could Adversely Impact the Company. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest margin. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, net interest margin could be expected to increase slightly during times when interest rates rise in a parallel shift along the yield curve and to increase during times of similar falling interest rates. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the repricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although we believe the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Financial Performance Depends on our Ability to Manage Recent and Possible Future Growth. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage recent and possible future growth. Although we believe that we have substantially integrated the business and operations of past acquisitions, there can be no assurance that unforeseen issues relating to the acquisitions will not adversely affect us. The Company’s opportunities for growth may be affected by its continued focus on the reduction of its nonperforming assets in 2010. In addition, any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operating and other problems that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have experienced in the past. Our Concentration of Operations in the Anchorage, Matanuska Valley, and Fairbanks, Areas of Alaska Makes US More Sensitive to Downturns in Those Areas. Substantially all of our business is derived from the Anchorage, Matanuska Valley, and Fairbanks, areas of Alaska. The majority of our lending has been with Alaska businesses and individuals. At December 31, 2009, approximately 73% of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate and 26% are for general commercial uses, including professional, retail, and small businesses, respectively. Substantially all of these loans are collateralized and repayment is expected from the borrowers’ cash flow or, secondarily, the collateral. Our exposure to credit loss, if any, is the outstanding amount of the loan if the collateral is proved to be of no value. These areas rely primarily upon the natural resources industries, particularly oil production, as well as tourism, government and U.S. military spending for their economic success. Our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions served by the Company, may have a more pronounced effect upon its business than they might on an institution that is less geographically concentrated. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. We are Subject to Extensive Regulation, which Undergoes Frequent and Often Significant Changes. We are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is regulated extensively. Federal and state regulation is designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, as well as our shareholders. These regulations can sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations. In addition, these regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Significant new laws or changes in existing laws or repeal of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, can significantly affect credit availability. Federal legislation such as Sarbanes-Oxley can dramatically shift resources and costs to ensure adequate compliance. Failure to comply with the laws or regulations could result in fines, penalties, sanctions and damage to our reputation which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 11 Table of Contents The Financial Services Business is Intensely Competitive and Our Success will Depend on Our Ability to Compete Effectively. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Improvements in technology, communications and the internet have intensified competition. As a result, our competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be Unable to Attract and Retain Key Employees and Personnel. We will be dependent for the foreseeable future on the services of R. Marc Langland, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; Joseph M. Beedle, our President of Northrim Bank; Christopher N. Knudson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph M. Schierhorn, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Steven L. Hartung, our Executive Vice President and Quality Assurance Officer; and Victor P. Mollozzi, our Senior Vice President for Business and Community Development. While we maintain keyman life insurance on the lives of Messrs. Langland, Beedle, Knudson, Schierhorn, and Mollozzi in the amounts of $2.5 million, $2.1 million, $1 million, $2 million, and $1 million, respectively, we may not be able to timely replace Mr. Langland, Mr. Beedle, Mr. Knudson, Mr. Schierhorn, or Mr. Mollozzi with a person of comparable ability and experience should the need to do so arise, causing losses in excess of the insurance proceeds. Currently, we do not maintain keyman life insurance on the life of Mr. Hartung. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. A Failure of a Significant Number or Our Borrowers, Guarantors and Related Parties to Perform in Accordance with the Terms of their Loans would have an Adverse Impact on Our Results of Operations. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, which we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents 