Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of factors, including those specified below, which may adversely affect our business, financial results or stock price. Additional risks that we do not know about or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business or adversely impact our financial results or stock price. We incurred net losses from operations in the years ended December 27, 2009 and December 28, 2008, and we are currently in default of several covenants contained in our credit agreements with our senior secured lenders. Additionally, the industry conditions under which we operate have negatively impacted our revenues and, as a result, our results of operations and cash flows, and such factors may continue to adversely affect our business into the future. Further, based on currently projected cash inflows from operations, we may be unable to pay future scheduled interest and/or principal payments as they come due. All of these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our business, which is the temporary healthcare staffing business (and particularly the business of temporarily staffing of nurses), is under intense pressure due to high unemployment rates, an economy in recession, weak hospital admissions, and other challenging healthcare staffing industry dynamics that have suppressed incremental demand for temporary nurses. These industry conditions caused our revenues to drop by approximately 36.6% from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2009 and resulted in our incurring a net loss in fiscal 2009 of approximately $51.2 million and a net loss in fiscal 2008 of approximately $116.9 million. Additionally, we are currently in default under our credit agreements with both our first lien secured lenders and our second lien secured lenders. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and our auditors have included a going concern modification in their audit report on our financial statements at December 27, 2009 and for the fiscal year then ended as a result of these uncertainties, and we have disclosed this going concern uncertainty and management’s plans to deal with this uncertainty in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. Our plans to address these matters are discussed in greater detail under “Item 1. Business-Recent Developments”, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Notes 1 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. Our future viability is dependent on our ability to execute these plans successfully. If we fail to do so for any reason, we may not have adequate liquidity to fund our operations, would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If we are unable to successfully negotiate mutually agreeable terms with our lenders as a result of our violation of several covenants contained in our credit agreements, our business could be negatively impacted. We amended our July 2, 2007 credit facilities (Original Credit Agreement) with our first lien lenders on March 12, 2009 (Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement). We subsequently failed to comply with certain financial covenants in the Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement, and on December 18, 2009 we entered into a Forbearance Agreement to the Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement (Forbearance Agreement) with the lenders. The Forbearance Agreement expired on February 1, 2010 and we currently do not have a forbearance agreement with the first lien lenders. We have also failed to comply, for the period ending December 27, 2009, with certain financial covenants under the Amended and Restated Second Lien Credit Agreement (Amended and Restated Second Lien Credit Agreement and together with the Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement, the Amended Credit Agreements) that we have entered into with our second lien lenders, and we have not entered into a forbearance agreement with the second lien lenders. 9 Table of Contents If our first lien secured lenders and our second lien secured lenders do not agree to modify the covenants or waive such violations, it could result in the acceleration of the maturity date of all of our debt. Should the maturity date of our debt be accelerated, we may determine that it is in our best interest to voluntarily seek relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Seeking relief under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, even if we are able to emerge quickly from Chapter 11 protection, could have a material adverse effect on the relationships between us and our existing and potential customers, employees, and others. Further, if we were unable to implement a plan of reorganization, we might be forced to liquidate under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our ability to borrow under the Revolver (defined below) portion of our Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement has been eliminated. Our Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement provides for an $18.0 million revolving senior credit facility (Revolver). Our ability to borrow under the Revolver is based upon our compliance with the financial convents contained in the Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement. Since we have not satisfied certain of the financial covenants under our Amended and Restated First Lien Credit Agreement, our first lien senior lenders have, effective as of December 18, 2009, eliminated our ability to draw funds down on the Revolver, which could adversely affect our business if we need liquidity assistance to fund our obligations as they become due. Restrictive covenants in our Amended Credit Agreements may limit our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. Our Amended Credit Agreements contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that we believe may be in our best interest. The Amended Credit Agreements, among other things, limit our ability to: • incur further indebtedness; • create or incur liens; • make investments and acquire assets; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, other than for cash; and • prepay any indebtedness. The restrictions contained in our Amended Credit Agreements could affect our ability to: • finance our operations • make needed capital expenditures • make strategic acquisitions or investments; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. 10 Table of Contents High unemployment rates could have a negative impact on our ability to successfully recruit additional healthcare professionals. We believe that high unemployment rates cause nurses in many households to become primary wage earners, which in turn causes them to seek more traditional full-time employment. Should unemployment rates remain high, it could be more difficult for us to recruit nurses to become our employees. Additionally, high unemployment has reduced turnover and position vacancies at our client facilities, which has reduced their demand for our services. If we are unable to attract qualified nurses and allied health professionals for our healthcare staffing business, our business could be negatively impacted. We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain nurses and allied health professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our hospital and healthcare facility clients. We compete for temporary healthcare professionals with other temporary healthcare staffing companies and with hospitals and healthcare facilities. We must continually evaluate and expand our temporary healthcare professional network to keep pace with our hospital and healthcare facility clients’ needs. Currently, there is a shortage of qualified nurses in many areas of the U.S. We may be unable to continue to increase the number of temporary healthcare professionals that we recruit, thereby decreasing the potential for growing our business. Our ability to attract and retain temporary healthcare professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide temporary healthcare professionals with assignments that they view as attractive and to provide them with competitive benefits and wages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in any of these areas. The cost of attracting temporary healthcare professionals and providing them with attractive benefits packages may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, if we are unable to pass these costs on to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, our profitability could decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain temporary healthcare professionals, the quality of our services to our hospital and healthcare facility clients may decline and, as a result, we could lose clients. Contraction of demand for our temporary nurses may continue if hospital admissions levels remain lower than expected and, in some instances, continue to decline. Demand for temporary nurses has been experiencing a period of significant contraction. Hospitals are experiencing lower than projected admissions levels and are placing greater reliance on existing full-time staff, resulting in increased overtime and nurse-patient loads. Due to the weak labor market, the additional burdens being placed on full-time staff has not resulted in the typical corresponding increase in turnover. Consequently, our service revenues have been under intense pressure. So long as these industry trends continue, our revenues and gross profit margins will be adversely impacted. Demand for healthcare staffing services could be significantly affected by macro- or micro- economic conditions or by factors beyond our control (i.e.; hurricanes, weather conditions, acts of war, etc.). When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many companies, including our hospital and healthcare facility clients, reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees. In addition, we experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn. The current recession and the continuation or intensification of any continued volatility in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to our customers and businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. To the extent that disruption in the financial markets continues and/or intensifies, our customers’ ability to access debt and/or equity markets to continue their ongoing operations, have access to cash and/or pay their debts as they come due may be materially affected, which could adversely impact the number of healthcare staff they request, as well as their ability to pay for our temporary staffing services. 11 Table of Contents The disruptions that the financial markets are currently undergoing have led to unprecedented governmental intervention on an emergency basis. The results of these actions have been unclear, resulting in confusion and uncertainty which in itself has been materially detrimental to the efficient functioning of the markets. It is impossible to predict what, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental restrictions may be imposed on the markets and/or the effect of such restrictions on us, our customers and the operations of corporate entities generally in the U.S. Further, we cannot assess the impact that any future healthcare reform may have on our customers or our healthcare employees and, as a result, on our business. Our results of operations and cash flow are affected by our ability to leverage our cost structure. We have technology, operations and human capital infrastructures in place to support both our current business operations and future growth. As revenues grow, these costs are leveraged over a larger revenue base, which positively impacts our results of operations and cash flow. Similarly, in periods of contraction, these costs are no longer as leveraged, adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flow. Over the last 18 months, in light of the adverse market conditions being experienced by our business, we took steps to reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses. However, we do not expect to be able to further reduce such costs, which will adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow until revenues increase. We operate in a highly competitive market and our success depends on our ability to remain competitive in obtaining and retaining hospital and healthcare facility clients and temporary healthcare professionals. The temporary healthcare staffing business is highly competitive. We compete in national, regional and local markets with full-service staffing companies and with specialized temporary staffing agencies. Some of our largest competitors are AMN Healthcare Services, Inc., Cross Country Healthcare, Inc., and Medfinders, Inc. Several of our competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Competition for hospital and healthcare facility clients and temporary healthcare professionals may increase in the future and, as a result, we may not be able to remain competitive. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or hospital and healthcare facility clients. Furthermore, our margins could decline, which could seriously harm our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. In addition, the development of alternative recruitment channels could lead our hospital and healthcare facility clients to bypass our services, which would also cause our revenues and margins to decline. Our business depends upon our continued ability to secure and fill new orders from our hospital and healthcare facility clients, because we do not have long-term agreements or exclusive contracts with them. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with the vast majority of our hospital and healthcare facility clients. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from hospitals and other healthcare facilities and to fill those orders with our temporary healthcare professionals. Our hospital and healthcare facility clients are free to place orders with our competitors and may choose to use temporary healthcare professionals that our competitors offer them. Therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with our hospital and healthcare facility clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with our hospital and healthcare facility clients, we may be unable to generate new temporary healthcare professional orders and our business may be adversely affected. Reacting to concerns over agency utilization in prior years, hospitals and other healthcare facilities have devised strategies to reduce agency expenditure and limit overall agency utilization. If current pressures to control agency usage continue and escalate, we and our industry will have fewer business opportunities, which could harm our business. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in patient occupancy at our hospital and healthcare facility clients may adversely affect the demand for our services and therefore the profitability of our business. Demand for our temporary healthcare staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of patient occupancy at our hospital and healthcare facility clients. When occupancy increases, hospitals and other healthcare facilities often add temporary employees before full-time employees are hired. As occupancy decreases, hospitals and other healthcare facilities typically reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of their own employees. In addition, we experience more competitive pricing pressure during periods of occupancy downturn. Occupancy at our hospital and healthcare facility clients also fluctuates due to the seasonality and the timing of some elective procedures. We are unable to predict the level of patient occupancy at any particular time and its effect on our revenues and earnings. Our clients’ inability to pay for services could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for estimated losses resulting from the potential inability of our customers to make required payments, which results in a provision for doubtful accounts. If the financial condition of our customers, or VMS providers (in our role as a subcontractor in dozens of VMS agreements), were to deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments, we could be required to record additional allowances for doubtful accounts, which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow. Our costs of providing housing for temporary healthcare professionals in our travel business may be higher than we anticipate and, as a result, our margins could decline. We currently have approximately 120 apartments on lease throughout the U.S. that are used for housing for temporary healthcare professionals. If the costs of renting apartments and furniture for our temporary healthcare professionals increase more than we anticipate and we are unable to pass such increases on to our clients, our margins may decline. To the extent that the length of a nurse’s or other professional’s housing lease exceeds the term of the nurse’s or other professional’s staffing contract, we bear the risk that we will be obligated to pay rent for housing we do not use. To limit the costs of unutilized housing, we try to secure leases with term lengths that match the term lengths of our staffing contracts, which typically last thirteen weeks but can range up to 52 weeks in duration. In some housing markets we have had, and believe we will continue to have, difficulty identifying short-term leases. If we cannot identify a sufficient number of appropriate short-term leases in regional markets, or if, for any reason, we are unable to efficiently utilize the apartments we do lease, we may be required to pay rent for unutilized housing or, to avoid such risk, we may have to forego otherwise profitable opportunities. Healthcare reform could negatively impact our business opportunities, revenues and margins. The U.S. government has undertaken efforts to control increasing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and drug companies. The U.S. Congress has, in recent years, considered several comprehensive healthcare reform proposals. Further, Congress, with the support of the Obama administration, has just passed a comprehensive healthcare reform bill. It is difficult at this time to determine how hospitals and other healthcare facilities may react and what impact (positive or negative) it could have on our business. Several state governments have also attempted to control increasing healthcare costs. For example, the State of Massachusetts implemented a regulation that limits the hourly rate billable by temporary nurse staffing agencies for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and certified nurses’ aides and the State of Minnesota implemented a statute that limits the amount that nursing agencies may charge nursing homes. Other states have also proposed legislation that would limit the amounts that temporary healthcare staffing companies may charge. Any such current or proposed laws could impact our business, revenues and results of operations. Further, third party payers, such as health maintenance organizations, increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical care. Failure by hospitals and other healthcare facilities to obtain full reimbursement from those third party payers could reduce the demand or the price paid for our staffing services. 13 Table of Contents Finally, there is a growing trend to restrict mandatory healthcare worker overtime requirements by employers and to establish nurse-patient ratios. The State of California enacted such legislation and several other states have similar legislation pending. This legislation could ultimately have a potential impact on our business, revenues and results of operations. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. Since the inception of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we spend an increasing amount of management’s time and resources (both internal and external) to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosures. This compliance requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestation of the effectiveness of these systems by our independent auditors. This process has required us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. We may encounter problems or delays in completing these reviews and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation by our independent auditors. If we are not able to timely comply with the requirements set forth in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our business. We operate in a regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions that could adversely impact our business. The healthcare industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and regulations related to professional licensure, conduct of operations, payment for services and payment for referrals. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations that are directly applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties or be subject to injunctions or cease and desist orders. The extensive and complex laws that apply to our hospital and healthcare facility clients, including laws related to Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, could indirectly affect the demand or the prices paid for our services. For example, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and/or be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs if they fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to their businesses. In addition, our hospital and healthcare facility clients could receive reduced reimbursements, or be excluded from coverage, because of a change in the rates or conditions set by federal or state governments. In turn, violations of or changes to these laws and regulations that adversely affect our hospital and healthcare facility clients could also adversely affect the prices that these clients are willing or able to pay for our services. The Joint Commission has created a set of quality and compliance standards by which to certify healthcare staffing providers. Healthcare staffing companies can apply to be reviewed by The Joint Commission to ensure that they are compliant with the standards. Healthcare facilities could potentially use only those providers that obtain certification. In that regard, we completed the voluntary certification process in fiscal 2008 and received The Joint Commission’s Gold Seal of Approval for the third consecutive time. Upon subsequent review (which in the future will occur biannually), should we not meet the standards created by The Joint Commission it could potentially adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems. We are highly dependent on the proper functioning of our information systems in operating our business. Critical information systems used in daily operations identify and match staffing resources and client assignments. These systems also track regulatory credentialing expirations and other relevant client and healthcare information. They also perform payroll, billing and accounts receivable functions. Our information systems while fully backed up are vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins and similar events. If our information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, these functions would have to be accomplished manually, which could impact our ability to identify business opportunities quickly, maintain billing and staffing records reliably, pay our staff in a timely fashion and bill for services efficiently. 14 Table of Contents Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial uninsured liabilities. In recent years, healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions might involve large claims and cause us to incur significant defense costs. In addition, we may be subject to claims related to torts or crimes committed by our employees or temporary healthcare professionals. In some instances, we are required to indemnify our hospital and healthcare facility clients against some or all of these risks. A failure of any of our employees or temporary healthcare professionals to observe our policies and guidelines intended to reduce these risks, relevant client policies and guidelines or applicable federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations could result in negative publicity, payment of fines or other damages. We retain the first $1.0 million, per occurrence, of risk associated with professional liability. We maintain a professional liability insurance policy for losses in excess of this per occurrence amount. Our professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us or continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or if our insurers deny coverage we may be exposed to substantial liabilities. We may be legally liable for damages resulting from our hospital and healthcare facility clients’ mistreatment of our temporary healthcare professionals. Because we are in the business of placing our temporary healthcare professionals in the workplaces of other companies, we are subject to possible claims by our temporary healthcare professionals alleging discrimination, sexual harassment, negligence and other similar activities by our hospital and healthcare facility clients. The cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary healthcare professionals in the future. If we become subject to material liabilities under our self-insured programs, our financial results may be adversely affected. We provide for certain types of risk management coverage through a program that is partially self-insured. We retain the first $1.0 million, per occurrence, of risk associated with professional liability claims. In addition, we retain the first $0.5 million, per occurrence, of risk associated with workers compensation claims. We also provide medical coverage to our employees through a partially self-insured preferred provider organization. If we become subject to substantial professional liability, workers compensation claims and/or medical coverage liabilities, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our operations may deteriorate if we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our sales and recruitment personnel. Our success depends upon the performance of our sales and recruitment personnel, especially regional directors, branch managers and staffing coordinators. The number of individuals who meet our qualifications for these positions is limited and we may experience difficulty in attracting qualified candidates. In addition, we commit substantial resources to the training, development and support of these individuals. Competition for qualified sales and recruitment personnel in the line of business in which we operate is strong and there is a risk that we may not be able to retain our sales and recruitment personnel after we have expended the time and expense to recruit and train them. The loss of key senior management personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We rely heavily on the services of the members of our senior management team, which consists of our executive officers, Robert J. Adamson and Kevin S. Little, and several key employees (Lynne Mathews, Jan Casford, Patricia Layton and Jeffrey Yesner). We have employment contracts with each of our executive officers and one of our key employees. However, if members of our senior management team were to become unable or unwilling to continue their employment with the Company, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We may face difficulties integrating future acquisitions into our operations and our acquisitions may be unsuccessful, involve significant cash expenditures or expose us to unforeseen liabilities. We continually evaluate opportunities to acquire healthcare staffing companies that complement or enhance our business and frequently have preliminary acquisition discussions with some of these companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • the potential loss of key employees or clients of acquired companies; • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; • difficulties integrating acquired companies into our operating, financial planning and financial reporting systems; • diversion of management attention from existing operations; and • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare regulations. Acquisitions may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence and integration expenses that could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. We continue to have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet (even after the substantial non-cash write-offs of goodwill recorded in fiscal 2009 and 2008). Future write-offs of goodwill may have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. As of December 27, 2009, we continue to have $16.9 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which represents the excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At December 27, 2009, goodwill represented approximately 18% of our total assets. This goodwill is what remains on our balance sheet after writing off $43.0 million and $126.7 million of goodwill in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively, because it was impaired. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. As required by the Intangibles – Goodwill and Other Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) (ASC 350), we do not amortize goodwill or intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite useful life. Per ASC 350, impairment, for goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life, exists if the net book value of the goodwill or intangible asset equals or exceeds its fair value. During the year ended December 25, 2005, we reevaluated our reporting units and determined that each branch location represented a reporting unit, as opposed to our previous view that the entire business represented one reporting unit. We performed an analysis whereby the historical goodwill was allocated or “pushed down” to each reporting unit based on their estimated relative fair value at the time. In accordance with ASC 350, we perform an annual review for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year by performing a fair value analysis of each reporting unit. Our annual impairment testing utilizes recent trends and multiple assumptions and estimates, including future discounted cash flows relating to projected operating results. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, 62 reporting units recorded an impairment of $27.3 million to their aggregated goodwill of $39.9 million to write off the associated goodwill related to the reporting units deemed impaired. Another 7 reporting units, with aggregated goodwill of $1.5 million, have a fair value that is less than $100,000 in excess of their book value. At the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we closed one per diem branch and recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $0.4 million to write off the associated goodwill. Should a reporting units’ profitability decline, its projected growth rates decrease, and/or the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) increase, it is possible that the reporting units’ goodwill may be impaired at a subsequent reporting date. 16 Table of Contents During the fiscal 2009 third quarter review, we noted that impairment indicators were present at a number of our reporting units. We performed an interim test for impairment using a discounted cash flow model and determined that goodwill at many of these reporting units was impaired due to reduced projected operating results in the current fiscal period. As such, during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash charge of approximately $14.1 million to write off the associated goodwill related to the reporting units determined to be impaired. Coinciding with the closure/merger of three per diem branches during the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and one per diem branch closure during the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of approximately $1.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, to write off the associated goodwill. Should we decide to close one or more of our reporting units, the associated goodwill will be written off with a non-cash charge to the consolidated statement of operations. Although it does not affect our cash flow, an impairment charge to earnings has the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses, as the case may be. If we are required to record additional impairment charges, our stock price could also be adversely affected. Our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval Our executive officers and directors (including their affiliates) control approximately 7.7% of our outstanding common stock. Warburg Pincus Private Equity Fund VIII, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (Warburg Pincus), owns approximately 45.4% of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. Warburg Pincus has the right under our stockholders agreement to propose for nomination two persons to our Board of Directors. Any person proposed for appointment to the Board by Warburg Pincus will be subject to the determination of the Company’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee that such person is qualified to serve on the Company’s Board of Directors. As a result of this share ownership and representation on our Board of Directors, our principal stockholders will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. Warburg Pincus has demand registration rights to cause us to file, at any time and at our expense, a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) covering resales of their 14.5 million shares. These shares may also be sold under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, depending on their holding period and subject to significant restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of our company; as a result, we may be unable to consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our Board of Directors or stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 15 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Applicable Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. 17 Table of Contents On September 3, 2009, the Board of Directors approved the adoption of a stockholder rights plan. The rights plan was implemented through our entry into a rights agreement with American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, LLC, as rights agent, and the declaration of a non-taxable dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right (each, a Right) for each outstanding share of our common stock. The dividend was paid on September 17, 2009 to holders of record as of that date. Each right is attached to and trades with the associated share of common stock. The rights will become exercisable only if a person acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock (or, in the case of a person who beneficially owned 15% or more of our common stock on the date the rights plan was adopted, such person acquires beneficial ownership of any additional shares of our common stock) or after the date of the Rights Agreement, commences a tender offer that, if consummated, would result in beneficial ownership by a person of 15% or more of our common stock. The rights will expire on September 3, 2019, unless the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. We believe that our stock price has been adversely affected over the last 18 months by our net losses, by our high leverage, by our being in default under our credit agreements with our lenders, and by those economic and other factors that have adversely affected our operations (and the operations of our competitors). Further, the current uncertainty about healthcare policy, reimbursement and coverage in the U.S., has caused significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of healthcare and other companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include, but are not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • actual or anticipated changes in healthcare policy in the U.S.; • conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; • our ability to stay in compliance with credit facility covenants; • our inability to raise additional capital when and if it is required for use in our business; • conditions of other healthcare staffing companies or the medical staffing industry generally; • conditions of our healthcare provider company clients; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the healthcare staffing industry generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 