Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 8 Table of Contents If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes of or increases in banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that regard, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, places new limits on electronic debt card interchange fees, and will require the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance and limit certain sources of revenue. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy practices that they deem to be unsafe or unsound, or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. We cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary, and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets and on the Company. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. We may be adversely impacted by the unprecedented volatility in the financial markets. Dramatic declines in the national housing market in 2008 and 2009, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. Similarly, declining real estate values can adversely impact the carrying value of real estate secured loans. The downturn in the economy, the slowdown in the real estate market, and declines in some real estate values had a direct and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in 2008 and 2009. While we experienced some stabilization in the economy in 2010, we do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve significantly in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market 9 Table of Contents conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face continued increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Stabilization Act and Dodd Frank legislation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We have been required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Declines in the residential housing market would have a negative impact on our residential housing market income. The Company earns revenue from the residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings from RML. A slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In 2011, the Company expects that its revenues from the residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings from RML will be lower than 2010 because of a decline in refinance activity at RML and a flat residential housing market; however, declines in these areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition through a decline in interest income and fees. Our loan loss allowance may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which may adversely affect our earnings. We have established a reserve for probable losses we expect to incur in connection with loans in our credit portfolio. This allowance reflects our estimate of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. Our determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is highly subjective; although management personnel apply criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If our loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, we may suffer unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks’ loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance is inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our net income and financial condition. We have a significant concentration in real estate lending. The sustained downturn in real estate within our markets has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations. Approximately 71% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2010 consisted of loans secured by commercial and residential real estate located in Alaska. In recent years the slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted residential real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. During 2008, we experienced a significant increase in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in our residential real estate portfolio. Although non-performing assets decreased from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2010, we will see a further increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. Additionally, if real estate values decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. If any of these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses will increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Further, approximately 46% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2010 consisted of commercial real estate loans. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios have increased significantly in recent years. While our investments in these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential construction and land development loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will remain stable. Commercial construction and commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a consumer loan. These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in our loan loss allowance, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Real estate values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for defaulted loans as part of our 10 Table of Contents business. At December 31, 2010, the Bank held $10.4 million of OREO properties, many of which relate to residential construction and land development loans. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. Our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in market interest rates could adversely impact the Company. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest margin. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the repricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although we believe the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial performance depends on our ability to manage recent and possible future growth. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage recent and possible future growth. Although we believe that we have substantially integrated the business and operations of past acquisitions, there can be no assurance that unforeseen issues relating to the acquisitions will not adversely affect us. Any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operating and other problems that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have experienced in the past. Our concentration of operations in the Anchorage, Matanuska Susitna Valley, and Fairbanks areas of Alaska makes us more sensitive to downturns in those areas. Substantially all of our business is derived from the Anchorage, Matanuska Valley, and Fairbanks areas of Alaska. The majority of our lending has been with Alaska businesses and individuals. At December 31, 2010, approximately 71% of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate and 29% are for general commercial uses, including professional, retail, and small businesses, respectively. Substantially all of these loans are collateralized and repayment is expected from the borrowers’ cash flow or, secondarily, the collateral. Our exposure to credit loss, if any, is the outstanding amount of the loan if the collateral is proved to be of no value. These areas rely primarily upon the natural resources industries, particularly oil production, as well as tourism, government and U.S. military spending for their economic success. Our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions served by the Company, may have a more pronounced effect upon its business than they might on an institution that is less geographically concentrated. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Improvements in technology, communications, and the internet have intensified competition. As a result, our competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees and personnel. We will be dependent for the foreseeable future on the services of R. Marc Langland, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; Joseph M. Beedle, our President of Northrim Bank; Christopher N. Knudson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph M. Schierhorn, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Steven L. Hartung, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. While we maintain Keyman life insurance on the lives of Messrs. Langland, Beedle, Knudson, and Schierhorn in the amounts of $2.5 million, $2 million, $2.1 million, and $1 million, 11 Table of Contents respectively, we may not be able to timely replace Mr. Langland, Mr. Beedle, Mr. Knudson, or Mr. Schierhorn with a person of comparable ability and experience should the need to do so arise, causing losses in excess of the insurance proceeds. Currently, we do not maintain Keyman life insurance on the life of Mr. Hartung. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. A failure of a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the Allowance, which we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 