Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. and our business, you should carefully consider the following factors in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any one of the following risks 12 Table of Contents could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations, causing the price of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Because many companies sell in the market for location technology products, we must compete successfully to sustain or gain market share. The market for our products is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We are seeing increased competition throughout the market for location technology products. This increased competition will likely result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Some of our customers are also competitors of ours. Within each of our markets, we face competition from public and private companies, as well as our customers’ in-house design efforts. For chip sets, our main competitors include QUALCOMM, Infineon, Sony, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments, MediaTek, Global Locate, which was acquired by Broadcom Corporation during the second quarter of 2007, Atmel, u-blox, u-Nav, which was acquired by Atheros in the fourth quarter of 2007, NXP, Cambridge Silicon Radio and Trimble. Some large semiconductor companies may acquire private GPS companies to gain access to their technology and become serious competitors to us in a short time. For modules based on our products, the main competitors are Furuno, JRC, Sony, u-blox and Trimble. For licensed IP cores, our competitors include QUALCOMM, Ceva and several private companies. For modules based on our products, the main competitors are Furuno, JRC, Sony, u-blox and Trimble. Licensees of intellectual property from our competitors may also compete against us. We also compete against suppliers of software-based GPS solutions including NXP, RFMD and Cambridge Silicon Radio. We expect new competitors to enter the commercial market for GPS semiconductors as demand for GPS systems continues to grow. We anticipate that the increase in demand of GPS-based products will cause further price reductions in the market. In the wireless market, we also compete against products based on alternative location technologies that do not rely on GPS, such as wireless infrastructure-based systems. These systems are based on technologies that compute a caller’s location by measuring the differences of signals between individual cellular base stations. If these technologies become more widely adopted, market acceptance of our products may decline. Competitors in these areas include Andrew, Cambridge Silicon Radio, Polaris and TruePosition. Further, alternative satellite-based navigation systems such as Galileo, which is being developed by European governments, may reduce the demand for GPS-based applications or cause customers to postpone decisions on whether to integrate GPS capabilities into their products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do and many of our private competitors raised additional financing. We also believe that our success depends on our ability to establish and maintain relationships with established system providers and industry leaders. For example, in the second quarter of 2007, we announced that our SiRFstarIII architecture will provide GPS-based location awareness for products based on the Intel Ultra Mobile Platform; however, this relationship is not exclusive. Our failure to establish and maintain these relationships, or any interference with these relationships by our competitors, could harm our ability to penetrate emerging markets. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of a product historically declines significantly over the life of the product. In addition, the products we develop and sell are used for high-volume applications. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for mature products. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could also impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions 13 Table of Contents in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing products or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. We have been named as a party in several shareholder class action lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. We and certain of our current officers and directors have been named as defendants in several class action lawsuits that allege violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and seek to recover damages, a description of which can be found in the section titled “Business-Legal Proceeding.” We may in the future be subject to additional litigation relating to the announcement of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 financial results and the following decline of our stock price. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with such lawsuits. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our directors and officers, could be time consuming, result in significant expense, and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet quarterly financial expectations, our stock price will likely decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and, have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. This would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate because of many factors, including: • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced GPS-based products in a timely manner; • changes in the relative volume of sales of our chip sets, our premium software offerings and our IP cores or other products and product mix, which have significantly different average selling prices and gross margins; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders; • unpredictable or launch delays of location-based services by operators impacting demand from our customers; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components, such as flash memory and crystal oscillators, used in our customers’ products; • the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or by our competitors; • the introduction or delay in launch of our customers’ products using our technology or customers’ no longer using our technology; • seasonality in our various target markets; • product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; • decreases in the average selling prices of our products; • changes in earnings estimates by market analysts; • changes in our management’s forecasts and outlook; and • fluctuations and estimations inherent in predicting our effective income tax rates. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we have a lengthy sales process in some of our target markets and our sales cycles typically range from nine months to two years, depending on the market. Because of this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience delays from the time we increase our operating expenses and our investments in committing capacity until the time that we generate revenue from these products. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast revenue and increases the variability of quarterly fluctuations. Further, a design win may never result in volume shipments. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient, if any, revenue from these products to offset the cost of selling and completing the design work. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to, fluctuations in our operating results, announcements regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock and general market trends unrelated to our performance. Technology stocks have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, which sometimes have been unrelated to their operating performance. The market price of SiRF’s common stock could be adversely affected by these factors and fluctuations. Any potential dispute involving our patents or intellectual property or third party patents or third party intellectual property could be costly, time-consuming and may result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time we and our customers receive letters, including letters from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents or offerings to discuss licensing of third party patents alleged to be used in our products. For example, in September 2000, we entered into a settlement and cross-licensing agreement with a third party regarding patent infringement under which we agreed to pay approximately $5.0 million and issued a warrant to purchase shares of our preferred stock. As we increase our international sales, we may become more susceptible to these types of infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents or any patents we may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. For example, in December 2006, our subsidiary, SiRF Technology, Inc., filed a patent infringement complaint against Global Locate, Inc. and its United States distributor, SBCG, Inc. d/b/a Innovation Sales Southern California, in the United States District Court for the Central District of California and on February 8, 2007, we filed a complaint with the ITC requesting an investigation under the Tariff Act of 1930. In April 2007, Global Locate filed a complaint with the ITC requesting an investigation of certain GPS devices and products made for, by, or sold by or for SiRF Technology, Inc. and four of its customers. During the second quarter of 2007, Global Locate was acquired by Broadcom Corporation. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our 15 Table of Contents business. Also, we may be unaware of filed patent applications that relate to our products. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the ITC that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our products and our customers’ products. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are entering into new markets that are highly competitive with well established competitors. As a result of some of our recent acquisitions, we are entering into more complex market areas and we may need to invest a significant amount of resources to compete successfully. These new market areas are highly competitive and have put increased pricing pressures on our products. For example, in both the Bluetooth and mobile TV space there is a range of well established semiconductor companies, including CSR, Broadcom, Texas Instruments, STMicroelectronics, MediaTek and Marvell in the Bluetooth space, Texas Instruments in the mobile TV space and Qualcomm in the mobile TV space and wireless space, as well as start-ups that have established a market presence. As a new entrant into these markets, we believe that our success depends on our ability to establish relationships with leading customers and, with regard to the mobile TV space and wireless space, with operators and infrastructure providers as well. Our failure to do so could harm our ability to successfully compete in these new markets and could adversely affect our operating results. If we do not timely deliver new products or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, our reputation may suffer and our net revenue may decline. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards for the high-volume GPS-based applications industry; • anticipate changes in technology standards, such as mobile TV and other wireless technologies; • develop and introduce new products that meet market needs in a timely manner; and • attract and retain engineering and marketing personnel. If we do not timely deliver new products, if these products do not achieve market acceptance or if we [discontinue] one or more of our product lines, our reputation may suffer, the variability of our revenue may increase and our net revenue, earnings and stock price may decline. In addition, if our products do not achieve market acceptance or if we [discontinue] one or more of our product lines, this could result in an decrease in headcount related to these product lines. For example, in 2005 we launched a range of new products based on both SiRFstarII and SiRFstarIII architectures and in 2006 we launched the following new products: SiRFstarIII GSC3LT, GSCi-5000, and SiRFInstantFix. During 2007, we introduced the SiRFstarIII GSD3t, SiRFDiRect and SiRFstudio products. Additionally, through the acquisition of Centrality, we introduced the SiRFatlas and SiRFtitan SoC products. While some of the product lines based on our SiRFstarIII architecture are now in high-volume production, others are still in prototype or sampling stages. If these or other products we introduce do not achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our business could suffer. We intend to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of our business strategy, we plan to evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. For example, in 2006, we acquired TrueSpan Incorporated, a development-stage technology company with significant communications systems expertise. Also in August 2007, we acquired Centrality Communications Inc., a privately-held developer of navigation processor solutions for mobile navigation systems, which is the largest acquisition completed by SiRF to date. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities in the future or be able to make these acquisitions or investments on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. If we are unable to identify and successfully complete suitable acquisitions or investments, we may be required to expand our internal research and development efforts, which could harm our competitive position or result in negative market perception. Any acquisition or investment could have several risks, including: • our inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies, product lines or operations; • diversion of management’s attention; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; • expenses related to amortization of intangible assets; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; • risk of project delays; • failure to achieve projected results of the acquisition; • loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • our inability to recover the costs of acquisitions or investments. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. Future acquisitions may require us to make investments upfront, and there is no assurance that such investments will retain its value or positively contribute to our financial results. We may not be successful in our integration efforts or in our joint product development efforts. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or identified intangible assets become impaired. We have recorded a substantial amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, as a result of our recent acquisitions. For example, in 2007 we recorded $76.0 million of intangibles and $160.8 million of goodwill in connection with our acquisition of Centrality. We are required to evaluate goodwill and other intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows and, with respect to goodwill, on at least an annual basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. As a result of our annual and other periodic evaluations, we may determine that we need to write-down intangible asset values to their fair values, which could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. Our operating results depend significantly on sales of our SiRFstarIII, SiRFaltas and SiRFtitan product lines and our ability to develop and achieve market acceptance of new GPS products. We currently derive most of our revenue from sales of our SiRFstarIII product line and we expect SiRFatlas and SiRFtitan SoC products lines to be a significant contributor to our revenue in 2008. We continue to invest in the development of next generation products, however there is no assurance that such future products will achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop or achieve market acceptance of new GPS products or other multifunction products, we will continue to depend on sales of our SiRFstarIII product line, which have declining average selling prices over time. Any decline in sales of our SiRFstarIII, SiRFatlas, or SiRFtitan product lines or decreases in average selling prices could adversely affect our net revenue and operating results. Our operating results will depend significantly on sales of our products in the wireless market. We expect to derive a significant portion of future revenue from sales of our products within the wireless market. Our success will depend on the growth of this emerging market. Our margins on sales of products in this 17 Table of Contents emerging market differ from our margins on sales of products in the automotive market, which historically has been the largest contributor to our revenue mix. If the wireless market does not achieve the growth we expect, the growth and success of our business could be limited. In addition, if we do not timely deliver new wireless-based products or if these products do not achieve market acceptance our net revenue and operating results may not increase as anticipated or may decline. Our products are becoming more complex and defects in our products could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. With some of our recent acquisitions we are expanding into even more complex technologies that may require a significant investment of resources to be successful. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, our products may contain errors, which are not detected until after they are shipped because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. In addition, errors or defects in our server software could cause our customers to experience a loss of network service effecting end-users. As our products become more complex, we face significantly higher research and development risks and risk of undetected defects. In addition, as our components become more complex we may be limited in the number of products that can utilize these components. While our historical warranty costs have not been significant, any errors or defects in our products, or the perception that there may be errors or defects in our products, could result in customers’ rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, a decline in our stock price, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to manage our worldwide financial, accounting and operations reporting. We are preparing for the implementation of a new ERP system in order to improve our ability to report information accurately, reduce our reliance on manual processing and enhance our ability to respond to market developments more quickly. We believe we are taking appropriate measures to ensure the successful and timely implementation of the new system, including, but not limited to, hiring qualified consultants and performing extensive testing. However, implementations of this scope have inherent risks that could lead to a disruption in our financial, accounting and operations reporting as well as the inability to obtain access to key financial data. If we encounter problems with the implementation, we may be unable to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which would aversely affect our business and our stock price could decline. The market for GPS-based location awareness capabilities in high-volume consumer and commercial applications is emerging, and if this market does not develop as quickly as we expect, the growth and success of our business will be limited. The market for GPS-based location awareness technology in high-volume consumer and commercial applications is new and its potential is uncertain. Many of these GPS-based applications have not been commercially introduced or have not achieved widespread acceptance. Our success depends on the rapid development of this market. We cannot predict the growth rate, if any, of this market. The development of this market depends on several factors, including government mandates such as E911 mandate in the United States and E110 mandate in Japan, the development of location awareness infrastructure by wireless network operators and the availability of location-aware content and services. The failure of the market for high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications to develop in a timely manner would limit the growth and success of our business. Our success depends upon our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products incorporating our technology. Even if a customer selects our technology to incorporate into its product, the customer may not ultimately market and sell its product successfully. A cancellation or change in plans by a customer, whether from lack of 18 Table of Contents market acceptance, such as in the wireless space, of its products or otherwise, could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. Also, our business and operating results could suffer if a significant customer reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release products that contain our technology. Our future success depends on building relationships with customers that are market leaders. If we cannot establish these relationships or if these customers develop their own systems or adopt competitors’ products instead of buying our products, our business may not succeed. We intend to continue to pursue customers who are leaders in our target markets. We may not succeed in establishing these relationships because these companies may develop their own systems or adopt one of our competitors’ products. These relationships often require us to develop new premium software that involves significant technological challenges. These types of customers also frequently place considerable pressure on us to meet their tight development schedules. We may have to devote a substantial amount of our limited resources to these relationships, which could detract from or delay our completion of other important development projects. Delays in development of these projects could impair our relationships with other customers and could negatively impact sales of products under development. Some of our customers could become our competitors. Many of our customers are also large integrated circuit suppliers and some of our large customers already have GPS expertise in-house. These large customers have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we do. The process of licensing our technology to and support of such customers entails the transfer of technology that may enable them to become a source of competition to us, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot sell to some customers who compete with us. In addition, we compete with divisions within some of our customers. For example, STMicroelectronics, a customer of ours, has internally developed a GPS solution for the automotive market in which we compete. Further, each new design by a customer presents a competitive situation. In the past, we have lost design wins to divisions within our customers and this may occur again in the future. We cannot assure you that these customers will not continue to compete with us, that they will continue to be our customers or that they will continue to license products from us at the same volumes. Competition could increase pressure on us to lower our prices and could negatively impact our profit margins. We have relied, and expect to continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net revenue, and our net revenue could decline due to the delay or loss of significant customer orders. We expect that a small number of customers may constitute a significant portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. In 2007, we had two customers that each accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue, and which collectively accounted for approximately 45% of our net revenue. If we fail to successfully sell our products to one or more of our significant customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, our net revenue could decline, and our operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, we design some of our products to incorporate customer specifications. If our customers purchase fewer products than anticipated or if we lose a customer, we may not be able to sell these products to other customers, which would result in excess inventory and could negatively impact our operating results. Our distributors account for a significant percentage of our net revenue and our reliance on third-party distributors subjects us to risks that could negatively impact our business. We market and sell our products directly and through third-party distributors pursuant to agreements that can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon prior notice to the other party. These agreements are non-exclusive and permit our distributors to offer our competitors’ products. In addition, our third-party distributors have been a significant factor in our ability to increase sales of our products. In 2007, we had one distributor that accounted for approximately 32% of our net revenue. Accordingly, we are dependent on 19 Table of Contents our distributors to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. If a significant distributor terminated its relationship with us or decided to market our competitors’ products over our products, this could have an adverse impact on our ability to bring our products to market. Additionally, distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our products against price reductions. Some agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. We defer the gross margins on our sales to distributors, resulting from both our deferral of revenue and related product costs, until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors. However, in the event of decline in the price of our products, the price protection rights we offer to our distributors could adversely affect us because our revenue and product margin would decline. In some cases, our distributors’ ability to order products may be limited by their credit line or other financial limitations, which could also adversely affect our revenue. We have derived a substantial majority of our net revenue from sales to the automotive, mobile phone and consumer device markets. If we fail to generate continued revenue from these markets or from additional markets, our net revenue could decline. We believe that over 90% of our net revenue during 2007 and 2006 was attributable to products that were eventually incorporated into the automotive, including portable navigation devices, mobile phone and consumer device markets. Consumer spending and the demand for our products in these markets are uncertain and may decline. If we cannot sustain or increase sales of our products in these markets or if we fail to generate revenue from additional markets, our net revenue could decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from international sales and conduct a significant portion of our business internationally, and economic, political and other risks may harm our international operations and cause our net revenue to decline. We derived approximately 88%, 85% and 82% of our net revenue from international sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. International sales to the Asia-Pacific region accounted for approximately 81%, 79% and 72% of our net revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A significant amount of our business is international and our products are sold into markets that are very price sensitive. Tariffs and trade restrictions that favor local competition in some countries on our products could significantly impact our business. Any increase in tariffs changes on GPS products in countries where we do business could negatively impact our business. Additional risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • development of regional standards and infrastructure that could reduce the demand for our products, such as the emergence of a new satellite navigation system and a new mobile TV standard in China; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • international terrorism, particularly in emerging markets; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding tax obligations on license revenue that we may not be able to offset fully against our United States tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may recharacterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; 20 Table of Contents • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, particularly in emerging markets; • inadequate local infrastructure and transportation delays; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange and rate fluctuations; • failure by us or our customers to gain regulatory approval for use of our products; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. Also, there may be reluctance in some foreign markets to purchase products based on GPS technology, due to the control of GPS by the United States government. Any of these factors could significantly harm our future international sales and operations and, consequently, our business. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may affect our revenue and, as a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. In addition to the sale of chip sets, our business depends on the volume of production by our technology licensees, which, in turn, depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. As a result, if we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenue from our chip set customers and technology licensees, our operating results could suffer and we could experience operating losses. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry and in our geographic regions, we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, which could impact the development or sales of our products. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel, such as communications systems experts, GPS systems and algorithm experts, software developers, radio frequency hardware design engineers. Because of the intense competition for these personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, Los Angeles area and Phoenix area in the United States, Stockholm in Sweden, Bangalore and Noida in India and Beijing and Shanghai in China, we may be unable to attract and retain key technical and managerial personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to our lack of capacity to develop and market our products. All of our key employees are employed on an “at will” basis. The loss of any of these key employees could slow our product development processes and sales efforts or harm investors’ perception of our business. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for key personnel. Part of our business uses a royalty-based business model, which has inherent risks. Although a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from sales of our chip sets and SoCs, in recent periods, we have had a portion of our net revenue from large customers in the wireless markets come from royalties paid by licensees of our technology. Royalty payments are based on the number of semiconductor chips shipped which contain our GPS technology or our premium software. For our server software, royalties may be based on the number of subscribers or on transaction volumes. We depend on our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties. License royalty revenue represented 2%, 3% and 7% of our net revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2007, four of our licensees accounted for 21 Table of Contents approximately 10%, 11%, 21% and 45% of our license royalty revenue, respectively. If a significant licensee terminated its relationship with us, demands price reductions, decided to adopt our competitors technology over our technology or if we are unable to negotiate and renew existing agreements with significant licensees, our royalty revenue, gross margins and net income could be adversely impacted. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the following: • the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by wireless handset makers and wireless infrastructure vendors; • fluctuations in volumes and prices at which licensees sell products that incorporate our technology; • the demand for products incorporating our licensed technology; and • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology. In addition, the standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time-consuming and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. As a result, to date, we have relied exclusively on the accuracy of reports supplied by our licensees without independently verifying the information in them. Any significant inaccuracy in the reporting by our licensees or our failure to audit our licensees’ books and records may result in our receiving less royalty revenue than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement. SFAS No. 157 defines how the fair value of assets and liabilities should be measured in more than 40 other accounting standards where fair value measurement is allowed or required. Under SFAS No. 157, fair value refers to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants in the market in which the reporting entity transacts. SFAS No. 157 clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions. Effective in fiscal year 2008, we will adopt SFAS No. 157 except as it applies to those nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities noted in FASB Staff Position, or FSP No. 157-b. Also, in December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations.” Under SFAS No. 141(R), an entity is required to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, contractual contingencies, and contingent consideration at their fair value on the acquisition date. It further requires that acquisition-related costs be recognized separately from the acquisition and expensed as incurred, restructuring costs generally be expensed in periods subsequent to the acquisition date, and changes in accounting for deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after the measurement period impact income tax expense. In addition, acquired in-process research and development , or IPR&D is capitalized as an intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life. We expect the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will change our accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to fund the development of new products to keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to expand our business and maintain our market position. The market for high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications and other technologies that we are developing is characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as low power or smaller form factors. This requires us to continuously develop new products and enhancements for existing products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. For example, many of our customers are looking for very highly integrated products with multiple functions and multiple radio technologies. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund future innovations. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products and enhance existing products, we may not be able to compete successfully in our markets. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2007, we had 255 patents granted worldwide. Of this total we have 179 patents granted in the United States and 76 patents granted in foreign countries, with expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2025 along with 163 pending patent applications in the United States and 197 pending foreign patent applications. Our patent applications may not provide protection for all competitive aspects of our technology or may not result in issued patents. Any patents issued may provide only limited protection for our technology and the rights that may be granted under any future patents that may be issued may not provide competitive advantages to us. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where we need this protection. It is possible that competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around our patents and competitors could also successfully challenge any issued patent. We may also choose not to pursue all instances of patent infringement. We also rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and generate revenue. We also rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. We seek to protect our source code for our software, and design code for our chip sets, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software and IP cores under signed license agreements, which impose restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software and IP cores. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. We may have difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, which could increase the cost of doing business or cause our revenue to decline. Our intellectual property is used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries, particularly in emerging markets, in which we have no issued patents, or that may have reduced intellectual 23 Table of Contents property protection. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. As we increase our international sales, it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property rights. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which would harm our competitive position and market share. For example, if our foundries lose control of our intellectual property, it would be more difficult for us to take remedial measures because our foundries are located in countries that do not have the same protection for intellectual property that is provided in the United States. Furthermore, we expect this to become a greater problem for us as our technology licensees increase their manufacturing in countries, which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We have agreed to indemnify some customers for certain costs and damages of intellectual property infringement in some circumstances. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others. In addition to indemnification claims by our customers, we may also have to defend related third-party infringement claims made directly against us. In some instances, our GPS products are designed for use in devices used by potentially millions of consumers, such as cellular telephones, and our server software is placed on servers providing wireless network services to end-users, both of which could subject us to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur. In the past we have received notice from a major customer informing us that this customer received notice from one of our competitors that the inclusion of our chip sets into our customer’s products requires the payment of patent license fees to the competitor. We may receive similar notices from our customers or directly from our competitors in the future. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be pursued or that these claims, if pursued, would not harm our business. We depend primarily on a few independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of our current products, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products and damage our customer relationships. We do not own or operate a fabrication facility. We rely on third parties to manufacture our semiconductor products. Four outside foundries, Samsung in South Korea, IBM in the United States, STMicroelectronics in Italy and France, and TSMC in Taiwan currently manufacture substantially all of our products. Also, in 2007, with the acquisition of Centrality, we began using Global Uni Chip, a design foundry, to provide turnkey solutions for our SoC products. Because we rely on outside foundries, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of these foundries and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these foundries and we place our orders on a purchase order basis. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements with the foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to them. Any reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of semiconductors that we need. 24 Table of Contents Each of our semiconductor products is manufactured at only one foundry and if any one foundry is unable to provide the capacity we need, we may be delayed in shipping our products, which could damage our customer relationships and result in reduced revenue. Although we substantially use five separate foundries, each of our semiconductor products is manufactured at one of these foundries. If one of our foundries is unable to provide us with capacity as needed, we could experience significant delays delivering the semiconductor product being manufactured for us solely by that foundry. Also, if any of our foundries experiences financial difficulties, if they suffer damage to their facilities or in the event of any other disruption of foundry capacity, we may not be able to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. In addition, any consolidation among the various foundries could impact the affected foundries’ product capacity or its collective ability to continue to manufacture one or more of our products. If we choose to use a new foundry or process for a particular semiconductor product, we believe that it would take us several months to qualify the new foundry or process before we can begin shipping products. If we cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. The facilities of certain independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture all of our semiconductors are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risk and social upheaval. Certain outside foundries and their subcontractors upon which we rely to manufacture most of our semiconductors are located in countries that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheavals. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt these foundries’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our products. In addition, these facilities are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region, which could disrupt the operation of these foundries and in turn harm our business. For example, South Korea is a neighboring state to North Korea, which is currently in discussions with the United States and other countries regarding its nuclear weapons program. Any geographical or social upheaval in these countries could materially disrupt the production capabilities of our foundries and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or a substantial shortage of our products. We depend on a sole supplier for some critical components. We purchase certain critical components, such as NOR flash memory technology, from a single supplier. The loss of this supplier, disruption of the supply chain, or delays or changes in the design cycle time could result in delays in the manufacture and shipment of products, additional expense associated with obtaining a new supplier, impaired margins, reduced production volumes, strained customer relations and loss of business or could otherwise harm our results of operations. We place binding manufacturing orders based on our forecasts and if we fail to adequately forecast demand for our products, we may incur product shortages or excess product inventory. Our third-party manufacturers require us to provide forecasts of our anticipated manufacturing orders and place binding manufacturing orders in advance of receiving purchase orders from our customers. This may result in product shortages or excess product inventory because we cannot easily increase or decrease our manufacturing orders. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short-term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. In addition, our chip sets have rapidly declining average selling prices. As a result, an incorrect forecast may result in substantial product in inventory that is aged and obsolete, which could result in write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. Our failure to adequately forecast demand for our products could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. 25 Table of Contents We may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would delay the production of our semiconductor products. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minute impurities can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be nonfunctional. Semiconductor companies often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from their manufacturers. Our foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, including for our products. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. We may also experience yield problems as we migrate our manufacturing processes to smaller geometries. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease. The loss of any of our primary third-party subcontractors that assemble and test all of our current products could disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We rely on a limited number of primary third-party subcontractors to assemble and test all of our current chip sets either for our foundries or directly for us. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. If any of these subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, if any subcontractor suffers any damage to its facilities or if there is any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. We typically do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. We typically procure services from these suppliers on a per-order basis. Because of the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our semiconductor products. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. The GPS market could be subject to governmental and other regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or decrease demand for our products. GPS technology is restricted and its export is controlled. Our business may be impacted by both domestic and international regulations because our technology relies on the GPS satellite network and radio frequency bands. For example, the United States government may restrict specific uses of GPS technology in some applications for privacy or other reasons and block the civilian GPS signal at any time or in hostile areas. In December 2004, the President of the United States authorized a new national policy that established guidance and implementation actions for space-based positioning, navigation, timing programs, augmentations and activities for United States national and homeland security, civil, scientific, and commercial purposes. In addition, radio frequency bands are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency bands are made by the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are also governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and are subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Further, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, continually receives proposals for new technologies and services that may seek to operate in, or across, the radio frequency bands currently used by GPS and other public services. These types of regulations as well as other actions, may limit the growth of the GPS market, such as: • changes in the United States government policy for the use of GPS without charge; • reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation or spectrum sharing, which may negatively affect the utility and reliability of GPS-based products; • adverse decisions by the FCC that result in harmful interference to the delivery of the GPS signals, such as permitting the operation of ultra-wideband radio devices, which may harm the utility and reliability of GPS-based products thereby reducing demand for GPS-based products; 26 Table of Contents • changes in the United States government policy to maintain GPS satellites over a long period of time; and • a reduction in the number of operating satellites, which would impair the operations or utility of GPS. We also face various risks associated with our dependence on GPS satellites and radio frequency bands, including: • electronic and mechanical failures or sabotage of satellites; • substantial delays in replacing inoperable satellites with new satellites, if replaced at all, as repairing damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible; • disruptions in the GPS satellite network; and • unwanted emissions from mobile satellite services and other equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or inband, which may negatively affect the utility and reliability of GPS-based products. These regulations or actions could interrupt or increase our cost of doing business, which may have a material negative effect on our business. Personal privacy concerns may limit the growth of the high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications and demand for our products. GPS-based consumer and commercial applications rely on the ability to receive, analyze and store location information. Consumers may not accept some GPS applications because of the fact that their location can be tracked by others and that this information could be collected and stored. Also, federal and state governments may disallow specific uses of GPS technology for privacy or other reasons or could subject this industry to regulation. If consumers view GPS-based applications as a threat to their privacy, demand for some GPS-based products could decline. Changes to our senior management could negatively affect our operations and relationships with manufacturers, customers and employees. Changes in our senior management could negatively affect our operations and our relationships with our manufacturers, third-party subcontractors, customers, employees and market leaders. If the integration or departure of members of our senior management team does not go as smoothly as anticipated, it could negatively affect our business. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash, investments, amounts available under our bank line of credit and cash generated from operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in 27 Table of Contents increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing, and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The warranty provisions in our agreements with some customers expose us to risks from product liability claims. Our agreements with some customers contain limited warranty provisions, which provide the customer with a right to damages if a defect is traced to our products or if we cannot correct errors reported during the warranty period. While our historical warranty costs have not been material, if in the future our contractual limitations are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could require us to pay substantial damages. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 