Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the amount of interest income that the Bank receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest that the Bank pays on deposits and borrowings. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates also can adversely affect: · our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; · the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and · the average duration of our securities portfolio. 34 If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Company measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net portfolio value simulations and gap analysis is presented within “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may be unable to successfully implement its business strategy. In recent years, our business plan has focused on the goals of changing the Bank’s operations to a full-service community bank model, growing our franchise and maintaining a high level of asset quality. Our acquisition of Chester Valley Bancorp in August 2005 significantly advanced our progress in achieving our goals relative to changing the Bank to a full-service community bank and growing our franchise. The Comapny expects to continue to build and “fill-in” our existing Bank branch network through acquisitions, if prudently available, and additional de novo branch offices. No assurance can be given that the Company will ultimately succeed in our business plan. Our efforts will depend upon, among other factors, (i) our ability to retain and grow our existing base of deposits in an efficient manner, (ii) maintaining and expanding our commercial and consumer banking relationships in order to grow our loan portfolio, (iii) attracting and retaining experienced commercial lenders and managerial employees, (iv) maintaining an efficient cost structure for our operations, (v) maintaining asset quality and (vi) effectively expanding our branch network in southeastern Pennsylvania. The failure to achieve any of these factors could limit the implementations of our businesses strongly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to lending risk and could suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including those related to dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. The Company attempts to closely manage its credit risk through loan underwriting and application approval procedures, monitoring of large loan relationship and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our lending department and third party loan review specialists. The Company cannot assure that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. The Company’s loan portfolio includes commercial and multi-family real estate, commercial business and construction loans, which generally have a higher degree of risk of loss than single-family residential loans. As of June 30, 2007, approximately 39.1% of the Company’s total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans and construction loans. In addition, 8.4% of the Company’s loan portfolio at June 30, 2007 consisted of commercial business loans. The Company is focused on increasing these types of loans in the future. These types of loans involve increased risks because the borrower’s ability to repay the loan typically depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. Additionally, these loans are made to small or middle-market business customers who may be more vulnerable to economic conditions and who may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. These types of loans are also typically larger than single-family residential mortgage loans or consumer loans. Furthermore, since these types of loans frequently have relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans and or non-performing assets. An increase in non-performing 35 loans would result in a reduction in interest income recognized on loans. An increase in non-performing loans also could require us to increase the provision for losses on loans and increase loan charge-offs, both of which would reduce our net income. All of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic and business conditions in our primary market area could cause an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The substantial majority of our real estate loans are secured by properties located in Bucks, Montgomery and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, and Philadelphia and its suburbs in southeastern Pennsylvania, central and southern New Jersey and Delaware. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, including decreases in real estate values, adverse local employment conditions, and other significant local events. Any deterioration in the local economy could result in borrowers not being able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans to borrowers declining and the quality of the loan portfolio deteriorating. This could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require the Company to record loan charge-offs and/or increase the Company’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. The Company’s allowance for losses on loans may be insufficient to cover actual losses on loans. The Company maintains an allowance for losses on loans at a level believed adequate by us to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for losses on loans is a reserve established through a provision for losses on loans charged to expense that represents our estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio at each statement of condition date and is based on the review of available and relevant information. The level of the allowance for losses on loans reflects, among other things, our consideration of the Company’s historical experience, levels of and trends in delinquencies, the amount of classified assets, the volume and type of lending, and current and anticipated economic conditions, especially as they relate to the Company’s primary market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for losses on loans inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses experienced on loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for losses on loans. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for losses on loans and may require an increase in the provision for losses on loans or the recognition of further loan charge offs, based on judgments different from ours. Also, if charge offs in future periods exceed the allowance for losses on loans, the Company will need additional provisions to increase our allowance for losses on loans. Any increases in the allowance for losses on loans will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area with other financial institutions offering products and services similar to those the Company offers. The Company competes with savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented employees, many of which have greater financial and technical resources than us. The Company also competes with securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions to which the Company is subject, yet are 36 able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. The competition in our market for making commercial and construction loans has resulted in more competitive pricing as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. These trends could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow (irrespective of the limitations imposed by the supervisory agreements) and remain profitable. In addition, if the Company experiences an inability to recruit and retain skilled commercial lending officers, including experienced construction lenders, it could pose a significant barrier to retaining and growing our customer base. The competition in our market for attracting deposits also has resulted in more competitive pricing. The Company depends on the skills and performance of management. The Company depends heavily on its management team to provide leadership and to implement its strategic plan. The Company’s senior management team provides valuable financial expertise and administrative guidance. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair the Company’s ability to succeed. The Company can give no assurances, however, that these executive officers will continue in their capacities for any specific periods of time. The loss of services of any member of the Company’s senior management team may make it difficult for the Company to implement our business strategy and obtain and retain customers. In addition, if any of the Company’s executive officers decides to leave, it may be difficult to replace him or her, and the Company would lose the benefit of the knowledge he or she gained during his or her tenure. The Company’s future success depends largely on its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, lending and professional personnel. Competition for such employees is intense and there is a risk that the Company will not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. If the Company fails to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, sales and marketing, customer service personnel and experienced professionals, its ability to successfully implement its business strategy as well as the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision which could adversely affect its operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with law, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s management identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company’s management has conducted an assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This assessment resulted in the identification of certain significant deficiencies that, in the aggregate, represent a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Consequently, the Company’s management has concluded that the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting was not 37 effective as of June 30, 2007. A description of these items is included in Part II, Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The net impact of the deficiencies identified was to reduce net income and diluted earnings per share by $917 thousand and $0.06, respectively, from the amounts previously reported by the Company in its press release dated August 8, 2007 which was included as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on August 9, 2007 (File No. 0-49706). In addition, the Company has revised its net income, earnings per share and other data for each of the first three quarters in fiscal 2007 from previously reported amounts. See “Selected Quarterly Financial Data” at page 59. The Company’s management has developed appropriate remediation steps to correct the deficiencies which were identified. The Company cannot be certain its remediation effects will ensure that the Company’s management designs, implements and maintains adequate controls over the Company’s financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate the material weakness identified. The Company’s inability to remedy the identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, cause the Company to fail to file its periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner or require it to incur additional costs or to divert management resources. Due to its inherent limitations, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect financial statement preparation and presentations. These limitations may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of their effectiveness. In addition, the management has also performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation and the identification of the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting, the Company’s management has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30, 2007. See Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” located in Part II of this report for further discussion regarding the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 38 