Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: Risks Related to Our Company Downgrades or the revocation of our financial strength ratings would affect our standing among brokers and customers and may cause our premiums and earnings to decrease significantly. Financial strength ratings are important to the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies and are subject to periodic revision at the sole discretion of the rating agency. It is therefore possible that the future ratings of one or more of our insurance subsidiaries will not be maintained at current levels. For the financial strength rating of each of our principal operating subsidiaries, please see Item 1. “Business — Our Financial Strength Ratings”. If any of our insurance subsidiaries’ ratings were revised downward, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry would likely suffer. That could in turn cause substantial loss of revenue, as some portion of our business would likely move to competitors with higher financial strength ratings. Additionally, reinsurance contracts often contain terms that allow the ceding company to cancel its contract or to 23 Table of Contents demand additional security if the reinsurer is downgraded below an A- by either A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s. Any such decision to cancel or demand security would typically depend on the reason for and the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Such ratings-related cancellations and/or additional security requirements could materially affect our financial condition and our future operations, resulting in premium returns, the commutation of reserves and the costs of adding collateral. Moreover, if required to do so due to a ratings downgrade, our U.S. reinsurance operations may not have sufficient liquidity to post security as stipulated in such reinsurance contracts. All Lloyd’s syndicates benefit from Lloyd’s central resources, including the Lloyd’s brand, its network of global licenses and the central fund. Due to the resources potentially available through the Lloyd’s structure, Syndicate 2232 benefits from Lloyd’s high financial strength ratings. Syndicate 2232 would be adversely affected if the Lloyd’s ratings were downgraded from their present levels. Actual claims may exceed our reserves for losses and loss expenses. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover the expected losses and loss expenses with respect to the policies we write, but such reserves represent estimates only and not exact calculations of liability. These estimates are based on actuarial projections and on our assessment of currently available data, including trends in claims severity and frequency, emerging judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined as experience develops and as claims are reported and resolved. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. It is therefore possible that our reserves at any given time will prove to be inadequate. If we conclude that actual losses and loss expenses exceed our expectations and the reserves reflected in our financial statements, we will be required to increase our reserves to reflect our changed expectations. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and a reduction of capital. (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses” for a discussion of overall changes in reserves during 2012 and 2013.) We have estimated our net losses from catastrophes based on actuarial analyses of claims information received to date, industry modeling and discussions with individual insureds and reinsureds. Accordingly, actual losses may vary from those estimated and will be adjusted in the period in which further information becomes available. We may experience significant losses and financial volatility due to natural and man-made catastrophes. We have substantial exposure to losses arising out of natural disasters and man-made catastrophes. Natural disasters include a wide variety of destructive events including earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, tornadoes, droughts and floods among others. Man-made disasters can often be as costly as natural catastrophes and include events such as oil spills and similar environmental disasters, industrial explosions, acts of terrorism, nuclear accidents, political instability and global pandemics. Although the incidence and severity of such events are inherently difficult to predict, the international distribution of our business may subject us to a wider array of catastrophe exposure than similarly-situated carriers that do not have our geographic scope. Additionally, our growing book of international trade credit and political risk insurance exposes us to risks associated with global and regional economic upheaval, sovereign debt concerns and political unrest to a higher degree than other carriers. The loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency but high severity in nature. Large scale climate change could increase both the frequency and severity of our loss costs associated with property damage and business interruption due to storms, floods and other weather-related events. Over the long term, climate change could impair our ability to predict the costs associated with future weather events and could also give rise to new environmental liability claims in the energy, manufacturing and other industries we serve. In terms of severity, a combination of inflation-impacted property values and denser concentrations of insured properties have increased the overall severity of catastrophe losses to the industry in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. 24 Table of Contents We use industry-recognized catastrophe risk modeling programs to help us quantify our aggregate exposure to any one event. The accuracy of any such model’s predictions is largely dependent on the accuracy and quality of the data provided in the underwriting process and the judgments of our employees and other industry professionals. No model can anticipate every potential peril or catastrophic loss event, and it is particularly difficult for a model to anticipate losses that have not been experienced as a result of prior catastrophes. In addition, there is a possibility that loss reserves established for past catastrophes will be inadequate to cover losses. U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for a catastrophe until it occurs, so claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal period. Losses from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could also result in downward revisions to our financial strength ratings from the various rating agencies that cover us. Accordingly, we remain exposed to unanticipated contingencies related to natural disasters and man-made catastrophes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by inflation due to the long-tail nature of our business. A significant portion of our business is in long-tail lines (i.e., business lines in which the adjustment and payment of policy claims may not occur until several years after the policy expires). Long-tail insurance lines are inherently more susceptible than short-tail lines to the effects of inflation, because premiums are established long before the ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Although we consider inflation’s impact on our ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses when we set premium rates, our premiums may not fully account for the actual effect of inflation, which would result in our underpricing the risks that we insure and reinsure. If inflation causes our claims costs to exceed the reserves established when policies were written or the claims initially received, the resulting increase to reserves in later periods would decrease such periods’ net income and could have a material adverse effect on financial condition and results of operations. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by, among other things: adhering to limits restrictions on policies written in defined geographical zones and on limits exposed to any single client; adjusting the client’s retained risk levels where appropriate; establishing per-risk and per-occurrence limitations for each event; establishing underwriting guidelines which cover every insurance program written; and purchasing reinsurance. In addition, many of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We cannot assure you that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. In particular, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the areas of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Also, disputes relating to coverage conditions and choice of legal forum may arise, with the result that provisions of our policies designed to limit our risks may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. For the forgoing reasons, one or more catastrophes or other events could result in claims and expenses that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Turmoil in the U.S. and international financial markets could harm our business, liquidity and financial condition, and our share price. U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with adverse sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of further economic slowdowns. These conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession, may adversely affect various aspects of our business, including the demand for and claims made under our products, our counterparty credit risk and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us. Increased volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources, our investment performance and our share price. 25 Table of Contents We depend on a small number of brokers for a large portion of our revenues. The loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our top three brokers were Marsh, Aon (including Benfield Group) and Willis, and they represented approximately 26%, 18% and 12%, respectively, of our total gross premiums. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business produced by any one of those brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our reliance on brokers, program administrators and third-party claims adjusters subjects us to risk. We transact business through intermediaries, frequently paying insured or reinsured claims through brokers, program administrators or third-party claims adjustment services. If such an intermediary were to fail to pass such a payment through to the claimant or policyholder, we would remain liable for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when a customer pays its policy premium to a broker or program administrator for further remittance to us, that premium is generally considered to have been paid and the client is no longer liable for such amount even if we do not actually receive the premium. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the intermediaries we use with respect to our insurance and reinsurance business. In addition, we write a portion of our insurance business under contracts pursuant to which we authorize program administrators to underwrite and bind business on our behalf, within guidelines we prescribe. We rely on controls incorporated in program administration agreements, as well as on the administrator’s internal controls, to limit the risks insured only to those within the prescribed parameters. However, our controls and monitoring efforts may be ineffective, permitting one or more program administrators to exceed underwriting authority and cause us to insure risks outside the agreed upon guidelines. To the extent such administrators exceed their authorities or otherwise breach their obligations to us, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for our own account on commercially acceptable terms or to collect under any reinsurance we have purchased. We acquire reinsurance purchased for our own account to mitigate the effects of large or multiple losses on our financial condition. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the reinsurance they consider adequate for their business needs. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance in the areas and for the amounts required or desired. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. In addition, uncertainty within the financial markets may adversely affect our reinsurers’ and retrocessionaires’ ability to meet their obligations to us. The inability or refusal of such parties to make payments under a reinsurance or retrocession agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we remain liable to the insureds under the corresponding coverages written by us. Our investment performance may adversely affect our financial performance and ability to conduct business. Because we derive substantial income from invested assets, our operating results depend in significant part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Volatile conditions in the U.S. and international financial markets have in the past adversely affected our investment portfolio, and such conditions could occur again. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional losses in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our investment performance is subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, lack of liquidity, credit downgrades, default risk and, in 26 Table of Contents some cases, pre-payment or reinvestment risk. In addition, while we strive to maintain an investment portfolio with instruments rated highly by the recognized rating agencies, there are no assurances that these high ratings will be maintained over time. During the recent past, companies with highly-rated debt have filed for bankruptcy. The assignment of a high credit rating does not preclude the potential for the risk of default on any investment instrument. Our current Investment Policy Statement permits a limited amount of our investment portfolio to be invested in alternative assets (such as hedge funds and private equity). As a result, we may be subject to redemption restrictions which limit our ability to withdraw funds or realize gains or losses on such investments for some period of time after our initial investment. The values of, and returns on, such investments are also likely to be more volatile than those of our non-alternative portfolio. In addition, investments in hedge funds may involve certain other risks, including the limited operating history of a fund as well as risks associated with the strategies employed by the managers of the fund. Because losses arising from our insurance or reinsurance business may not flow in a regular or predictable fashion, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may arise at any time. To the extent we are unsuccessful in managing our investment portfolio within the context of our expected liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, or we may have difficulty in liquidating some of our alternative investments due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemptions noted above. This could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. If either our need for liquidity or our general liability profile unexpectedly changes, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in its current manner. In addition, investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. A material increase in interest rates and/or credit spread levels could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio is comprised largely of fixed-rate instruments the returns on which may be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Investment income on rate-sensitive securities is generally reduced during sustained lower interest rate periods, as higher-yielding fixed income securities are called by the issuers, or mature or are sold, and their proceeds must be reinvested at lower rates. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates prices of fixed income securities tend to fall and the ability to realize gains upon their sale is reduced. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to effectively mitigate our interest rate sensitivity with the result that a rise in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in the credit spread (the difference in the percentage yield) between U.S. Treasury securities and non-U.S. Treasury securities may negatively impact our investment portfolio as we may not be able to effectively mitigate credit spread sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in credit spreads could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investment portfolio includes material amounts of U.S. government agency and non-agency commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities. (See “Business — Investments: Type of Investment”.) When interest rates decline, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are generally prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. When interest rates rise, mortgage-backed securities may have lower levels of prepayments, extending their maturity and duration, thereby negatively impacting the security’s price. Our non-agency commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities are subject to delinquencies, defaults and losses on the underlying mortgage loans. While many of the factors that led to such delinquencies, defaults and losses in the past have moderated in recent years, further deterioration is possible. Delinquencies, defaults and losses with regard to non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities are driven in part by residential property values. A decline or an extended flattening in property values may result in increased 27 Table of Contents delinquencies, defaults and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investor properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. This would negatively impact the value of our securities. Our investment portfolio includes below investment-grade securities that have a higher degree of credit or default risk, which could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade, fixed maturity securities. However, we invest a smaller portion of the portfolio in below investment-grade securities. (See “Business — Investments: Ratings as of December 31, 2013”.) Additionally, we have recently made investment commitments involving private equity funds and hedge funds. These securities and fund investments, on which we expect to receive higher investment returns, also expose us to a higher degree of credit risk and counterparty default risk. They are also likely to be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. During such periods we could experience default losses in our portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. During periods of market disruptions, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, certain asset classes which normally trade in active markets with significant observable data may become less liquid during times of financial turmoil. In such cases, the valuation of a greater number of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. Valuations that are derived from inputs which are less observable or that require greater estimation could result in value determinations that differ materially from the values at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A meaningful portion of our insurance and reinsurance contracts are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of all our operating subsidiaries. In addition, we maintain a portion of our investments and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets in non-U.S. currencies are generally converted into U.S. dollars at the time of receipt, while liabilities incurred in a non-U.S. currency are carried on our books in the original currency until converted to U.S. dollars at the time of payment. We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately receive premiums and settle claims in foreign currencies. Among the currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar, the British pound sterling and the Euro. To the extent that we do not adequately hedge our foreign currency risk or our hedges prove ineffective, the impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, the European sovereign debt crisis and related restructuring efforts may have increased the risk of exchange rate volatility. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us on commercially favorable terms or may require shareholder approval. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds we receive from insurance premiums and investment income are insufficient to fund our requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or liquidating assets. Financial market volatility in recent years has created 28 Table of Contents uncertainty in the equity and credit markets, and such uncertainty could affect the ability of insurers and reinsurers to raise additional capital in the public or private markets. Any future financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financing, shareholder dilution could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. In addition, Swiss law generally prevents us from issuing shares below par value. Therefore, if a need to raise common equity capital arose at a time when the trading price of our shares was below par value, we would need to obtain shareholder approval to decrease the par value of our shares, a requirement that would entail filing a proxy statement with the SEC and convening a meeting of shareholders, which could delay capital raising plans. Further, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. Lastly, a reduction in our shares’ par value may decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital which is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. See “Risks Related to Taxation- We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax”. Our shareholders are empowered to authorize share capital that can be issued by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval. Under Swiss law and our Articles of Association, this authorization is limited to 20% of our existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions described in our Articles of Association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders and provides less flexibility than many U.S. states’ laws in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares. For example, we will not be able to issue preferred stock without the approval of a majority of the votes cast at a shareholder meeting. There may be situations where the additional restrictions which Swiss laws and our Articles of Association impose on capital management flexibility could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our capital and could also adversely impact our shareholders. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose any member of our management team or are unable to attract and retain our personnel. Our success depends in substantial part on our ability to attract and retain the highly qualified employees who have the experience and knowledge necessary to generate and service our business. We rely substantially on the services of our executive management team. If we were to lose the services of any member of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. An inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede implementation of our business strategy, materially and adversely affecting our business. We currently have written employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, General Counsel, Chief Actuary and certain other members of our executive management team; however, these agreements will likely need to be revised in light of the New Swiss Regulations discussed below. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our employees. Recent changes to Swiss law regarding executive compensation and corporate governance could adversely affect our ability to retain members of our management team or our Board of Directors and our ability to compete for talented employees with other insurance and reinsurance companies domiciled outside of Switzerland. Recent changes in Swiss law (the “Swiss Ordinance”) became effective as of January 1, 2014, subject to an extended transition period for some requirements. These changes will, among other things, require a binding shareholder approval for the compensation received by our management team and Board of Directors; require our shareholders to approve numerous amendments to our Articles of Association, including approving our compensation practices; prohibit severance payments; restrict the terms of provisions in existing and any future employment agreements; and subject our Board of Directors to criminal sanctions in certain cases for violations of the Swiss Ordinance. There is significant competition for executive and board talent in the insurance and reinsurance industry, and we compete for such persons with companies that are regulated by the laws of jurisdictions that may provide greater flexibility than Switzerland in terms of compensation and corporate governance practices. The provisions 29 Table of Contents of the Swiss Ordinance may adversely affect our ability to retain members of our management team and our Board of Directors as well as to compete for talented employees with other insurance and reinsurance companies domiciled outside of Switzerland, all of which could adversely affect our business. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience losses from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or failure to comply with regulatory or legal requirements. In particular, one or more of our employees, officers or agents may violate our internal policies concerning compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 or the anti-bribery laws in other countries. Such violations could entail severe penalties for improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining a commercial advantage. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Losses related to employee error or misconduct could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. If we experience difficulties with our information technology and telecommunications systems and/or data security, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology (“IT”) and telecommunications systems. Our ongoing business and continued expansion are highly dependent upon our ability to perform, efficiently and without interruption, necessary business functions. A prolonged failure of our IT and/or telecommunication systems or the termination of certain of our third-party software licenses could materially impact our ability to write and service our business or perform other necessary actuarial, legal, financial and administrative functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as internal exposures such as potentially dishonest employees, could expose our IT and data systems to security breaches that may result in liability to us, cause our data to be corrupted and cause us to commit resources, management time and money to prevent or correct security breaches. Some of our key business partners rely on our systems for critical underwriting and administration functions, and interruption and/or failure of these systems could cause significant liability to them. If we do not maintain adequate IT and telecommunications systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base critical decisions, the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, litigation exposures and increased administrative expenses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. The integration of acquired companies, the growth of operations through new lines of business, the expansion into new geographic regions and/or the entering into joint ventures may expose us to operational risks. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. We may experience difficulties in integrating an acquired company, which could adversely affect the acquired company’s performance or prevent us from realizing anticipated synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Expanding our lines of business, expanding our geographic reach and entering into joint ventures or partnerships also involve operational, strategic and financial risks, including retaining qualified management and implementing satisfactory budgetary, financial and operational controls. Our failure to manage successfully these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or business, or we may not realize any of the intended benefits. Risks Related to the Insurance and Reinsurance Business The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, with periods of excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms. Insurers and reinsurers tend to experience significant cyclicality in operating results due to fluctuating levels of competition and underwriting capacity, catastrophic events, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the amount 30 Table of Contents of industry surplus which, in turn, responds to changes in the investment returns earned by insurers and reinsurers. Catastrophic events, which are inherently unpredictable, can affect the subsequently prevailing market prices for certain products. As a result of these factors, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms (due to excessive underwriting capacity) as well as periods when capacity shortages permit favorable premium rates and policy terms. Increased supply of insurance and reinsurance may have adverse consequences for us, including fewer policies and contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Increased competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets in which we operate could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive, and many of our competitors in the U.S. and international markets have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, risk-linked securities and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms are being offered by non-insurance entities, and the availability of such products could reduce the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance. New competition arising from these developments could result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, financial condition or results of operations. For our reinsurance business, ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite which may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. Reinsurance underwriting success depends in part on the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, and we face the risk that the ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume as reinsurance. If this occurs, the premiums that are ceded to us may not adequately compensate us and we could face significant losses on these reinsurance contracts. The effects of emerging claims and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues may adversely affect our business, either by extending coverage beyond underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Such changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Consequently, the full extent of liability under our insurance and reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger defense costs, settlements and jury awards in cases involving professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance; and • a trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in class action litigation related to claims handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business. The availability and cost of reinsurance security arrangements may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the United States. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company, is not accredited as a reinsurer in any U.S. jurisdiction. As a result of its non-accredited status, it is generally required to post collateral with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes in order that its U.S.-domiciled cedents may obtain full credit on their statutory financial statements with respect to the reinsurance liabilities due from Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. Such collateral may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd uses trust accounts and has access to up to $1.45 billion in letters of credit under two letter of credit facilities. 31 Table of Contents Access to our existing letter of credit facilities depends on our compliance with agreed-upon covenants and on the ability of the banks to meet their commitments. Our $1 billion letter of credit facility with Citibank Europe plc is on an uncommitted basis, which means the bank has agreed to offer us up to $1 billion in letters of credit, but they are not contractually obligated for that full amount. Our $450 million syndicated letter of credit facility expires in June 2016. If such facilities are not sufficient or drawable or if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is unable to renew either facility or to arrange for trust accounts or other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the amount of reinsurance it is able to provide to U.S.-domiciled insurers may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements to our insurance subsidiaries are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must comply with numerous laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized and also where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products. (See “Business — Regulatory Matters”.) In general, and particularly for offshore insurers and reinsurers, our industry has been subjected to increased regulatory scrutiny over the past decade. Recent U.S. Congressional initiatives (as yet unadopted) have looked toward increased regulation of the domestic insurance industry. The impact of changes in laws and regulations on our future operations could be substantial, and the cost of complying with new legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, authorizations or accreditations, or they may be unable to fully comply with or gain exemption from laws and regulations applicable to them. An inability to comply with applicable laws or regulations could restrict our business in jurisdictions where we now operate or where we plan to operate. In addition, noncompliance with applicable laws could result in fines or other sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Bermuda operating company could become subject to regulation in the United States. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda operating company is not admitted as an insurer, nor accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. However, a majority of its gross premiums written each year is derived from policies or treaties with entities domiciled in the United States. Each state in the United States regulates the sale of insurance and reinsurance by foreign insurers. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd conducts its business through its Bermuda office and maintains no office and no personnel in the United States. While we believe our Bermuda subsidiary is not violating any state law or regulation, we cannot be certain that inquiries or challenges to our insurance and reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. If Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd were to become subject to any laws of this type in the future, we could be unable to comply with the requirements of those laws which could materially affect the amount of business done by our Bermuda subsidiary with U.S. domiciled policyholders. We may become subject to additional Swiss regulation. The BMA currently exercises group supervisory authority over our insurance companies. (See “Business — Regulatory Matters — Group Supervision”). In 2009, we received non-binding written confirmation from the Swiss regulator, FINMA, that it will not subject us to group supervision based primarily on the fact that most of our senior management do not reside in Switzerland. We cannot assure you that our future business needs may not require us to have a greater management presence in Switzerland or that FINMA will not otherwise determine to exercise group supervision over us. If subjected to group supervision by FINMA, there could be additional costs and administrative obligations as well as a substantial impact on our organizational and operational flexibility. 32 Table of Contents Our holding company structure and regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Allied World Switzerland, our ultimate parent company, is a holding company that has no substantial operations of its own nor any significant assets other than its ownership of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from subsidiaries are expected to be the sole source of funds for Allied World Switzerland to meet any ongoing cash requirements and to pay any dividends to shareholders. In addition, we have insurance subsidiaries that are the parent companies for other insurance subsidiaries, such that dividends will be subject to multiple layers of the regulations discussed below, as funds are distributed to our ultimate parent company. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Allied World Switzerland to meet its cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to transfer capital from one subsidiary to another and our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, Allied World Bermuda has senior notes outstanding and an inability of any of its insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could impact its ability to make payments on the outstanding senior notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Swiss Law Under Swiss law, dividends may be paid out only if we have sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years or if we have legal reserves, each as presented on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements. Payments out of the share capital (in other words, the aggregate par value of our share capital) in the form of dividends are not allowed; however, payments out of share capital may be made by way of a capital reduction to achieve a similar result as the payment of dividends. The affirmative vote of shareholders holding a majority of the votes cast at a shareholder meeting must approve reserve reclassifications and distributions of dividends; our Board of Directors cannot itself authorize the dividend. Under Swiss law, upon satisfaction of all legal requirements, we will be required to submit an application to the Swiss Commercial Register to register each applicable par value reduction. Without effective registration of the appropriate documentation with the Swiss Commercial Register, we will not be able to proceed with the payment of any installment of such dividend. We cannot assure you that the Swiss Commercial Register will approve the registration of any applicable par value reduction. Under Swiss law, if our general capital reserves amount to less than 20% of the share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register (i.e., 20% of the aggregate par value of our capital), then at least 5% of our annual profit must be retained as general reserves. In addition, Swiss law requires that we create a special reserve on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements in the amount of the purchase price of common shares we or any of our subsidiaries repurchases, which amount may not be used for dividends. Swiss companies generally must maintain separate audited statutory financial statements for the purpose of, among other things, determining the amounts available for the return of capital to shareholders, including by way of a distribution of dividends. Amounts available for the return of capital as indicated on Holdings’ audited statutory financial statements may be materially different from amounts reflected in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. Our auditor must confirm that a dividend proposal made to shareholders complies with Swiss law and our Articles of Association. We are required under Swiss law to declare any dividends and other capital distributions in Swiss francs. We have made and intend to continue to make any dividend payments to holders of our common shares in U.S. dollars. Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, our transfer agent, will be responsible for paying the U.S. dollars to registered holders of our common shares, less amounts subject to withholding for taxes. As a result, shareholders may be exposed to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar-Swiss franc exchange rate between the date used for purposes of calculating the Swiss franc amount of any proposed dividend or par value reduction and the relevant payment date. Bermuda Law Without BMA approval, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is prohibited from paying dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown in its previous year-end statutory balance 33 Table of Contents sheet) and may not pay any dividend if it failed to meet minimum solvency and liquidity criteria as of the prior year-end. Further, reduction of total statutory capital by 15% or more would require the prior approval of the BMA. In addition, Bermuda corporate law prohibits declaration or payment of a dividend whenever there are reasonable grounds for believing that (i) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay liabilities as they become due; or (ii) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities, its issued share capital and its share premium accounts. U.S. and Irish Law A U.S. insurance company may not pay an “extraordinary” dividend unless the applicable insurance regulator has approved (or not objected) to such action upon its receipt of 30-day prior notice. In general, an “extraordinary” dividend is defined as a dividend that, together with other dividends made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: (a) 10% of the insurer’s statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end; or (b) or the statutory net income during the prior calendar year. Regulators could also prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (or other payments, such as under a tax sharing agreements or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to such subsidiaries’ policyholders. In Ireland, the CBI must consent to any action by Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited to reduce the level of its capital, to pay any dividend, to make any inter-company loan or which would cause it to fall below a minimum solvency margin. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of these companies to declare and pay dividends. Effectiveness of the Affordable Care Act in the United States could have a material impact on our business. Our U.S. insurance segment and our international insurance segment derive substantial revenues from healthcare liability underwriting, that is, insuring professionals and institutions that participate in the U.S. healthcare delivery infrastructure. Much of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation, the Affordable Care Act, becomes effective in 2014 and is likely to effect far-reaching changes in the healthcare delivery system and cost reimbursement structure in the United States. Such changes could negatively impact our healthcare liability business. Additionally, future healthcare proposals could include tort reform provisions under which plaintiffs would be restricted in their ability to bring suit against healthcare providers, which could negatively impact the demand for our healthcare liability products. While the impact of this healthcare legislation or future healthcare proposals on our business is difficult to predict, any material changes in how healthcare providers insure their malpractice liability risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives, such as the Dodd-Frank Act in the United States and Solvency II in Europe, could adversely affect our business. The 2010 Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States, including the establishment of a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”). In December 2013, the FIO issued a report to Congress on recommendations for modernizing regulation of the U.S. insurance industry. The report recommended that in certain respects, and in the short term, the U.S. system of insurance regulation can be modernized through state-based improvements combined with certain federal actions. The report identified areas for direct federal involvement in international standard setting, FIO participation in supervisory colleges which monitor the regulation of large national and internationally active insurance groups and federal pursuit of international “covered agreements” to afford nationally uniform treatment of reinsurance collateral requirements. The report also made several recommendations for state reform of insurance regulation including changes to the state regulation of insurance company solvency, group supervision and corporate governance. The potential impact on our business as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the FIO’s current and future recommendations remain unclear; however our financial results could be adversely affected if the FIO’s report results in the creation of federal insurance regulations that constrain our business opportunities or reduce investment flexibility. In addition to federal developments, the insurance and reinsurance industry is also subject to heavy regulatory scrutiny by state governments and by an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, 34 Table of Contents including shareholders. Authorities in the United States and worldwide show increasing concerns about the potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole and about its risks to commercial and financial systems, and these concerns may result in increased regulatory intervention. Some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that increase regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of the Insurance Commissioners regularly reexamines and recommends enhancements to existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide governmental insurance or reinsurance capacity in markets we target; • require greater participation in industry risk pools and guaranty associations; • expand the scope of mandated coverage terms under insurance policies; • revise laws and regulations under which we operate, including a potential change to U.S. tax laws to disallow or limit the current tax deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda insurance subsidiary for reinsurance protections it provides to our U.S. subsidiaries; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another. With respect to international measures, the 2009 E.U. directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers (“Solvency II”) may affect our insurance businesses. In September 2013, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”) published final guidelines for Solvency II preparations, which set out EIOPA’s proposal for the phased introduction of specific Solvency II requirements covering systems of governance, forward looking assessment of the undertaker’s own risk, submission of information to national authorities, and the pre-application of internal models. Full implementation of the Solvency II requirements is currently anticipated at the beginning of 2016, and compliance with its capital and solvency margin requirements may lead to an increase of the capital required by our E.U. domiciled insurer. Solvency II provides for the supervision of insurers and reinsurers on both a solo (entity level) and group basis. (See Item 1. “Business—Regulatory Matters-Group Supervision”.) In respect of our non-E.U. subsidiaries engaging in E.U. insurance or reinsurance business, should the regulatory regime in which they are operating not be deemed equivalent to that established within the E.U. pursuant to Solvency II, additional capital requirements may be imposed in order that such companies may continue to insure or reinsure E.U. domiciled risk/cedents. We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal insurance subsidiary is domiciled in Bermuda. For example, as a small jurisdiction, Bermuda may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading E.U. countries. In addition, Bermuda is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom but may consider changes to such status in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position with respect to its regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results. Developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, may require considerable additional expense to comply with, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparison purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted, but may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Future sales of our common shares may adversely affect the market price. As of February 3, 2014, we had 33,284,136 common shares outstanding. Up to an additional 1,278,386 common shares may be issuable upon the vesting and exercise of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based equity awards. We have filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) to register common shares issued or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plans and our Amended and Restated Employee Share Purchase Plan, and additional share registrations may occur in the future. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding stock options, shares registered under the registration statements on Form S-8 will be available for sale to the public. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the shares’ market price and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Our Articles of Association contain restrictions on voting, ownership and transfers of our common shares. Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by our common shares. These provisions could reduce the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our Board of Directors may refuse to register any holder of shares as a shareholder with voting rights based on certain grounds, including if the holder would, directly or indirectly, formally, constructively or beneficially own (as described in Articles 8 and 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register. In addition, our Board of Directors shall reject entry of a holder of voting shares as a shareholder with voting rights in the share register or shall decide on such holder’s deregistration when the acquirer or shareholder upon request does not expressly state that it has acquired or holds the voting shares for its own account and benefit. Furthermore, our Board of Directors may cancel, with retroactive application, the registration of a shareholder with voting rights if the initial registration was on the basis of false information in the shareholder’s application. Shareholders registered without voting rights may not participate in or vote at our shareholders meetings, but will be entitled to dividends, preemptive rights and liquidation proceeds. Only shareholders that are registered as shareholders with voting rights on the relevant record date are permitted to participate in and vote at a shareholders meeting. Anti-takeover provisions in our Articles of Association could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Articles of Association currently make it difficult to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so, and they could also delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Such provisions can adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares if viewed as discouraging management changes and/or takeover attempts. The following Articles, among others, could have such an effect: reduced voting power for shareholders owning 10% or more of our total shares; and discretion by our directors to decline registration of a shareholder as a shareholder-with-voting-rights to the extent such shareholder owns or otherwise controls (alone or together with others) 10% of our total voting rights or if such shareholder refuses to confirm to us that it has acquired the voting shares for its own account and benefit. Moreover, our Board of Directors has the power until May 3, 2014 to issue a number of voting shares up to 20% of our share capital registered in the Swiss Commercial Register and to limit or withdraw the preemptive rights of the existing shareholders in various circumstances. 36 Table of Contents As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. Swiss law differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Together with our Articles of Association, these Swiss law differences may result in your having greater difficulties protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. Among other things, such differences impact the ability to void transactions involving an interested director as well as the ability to hold an interested director accountable for benefits realized in a transaction with our company. Also affected by Swiss law are what approvals may be required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights a shareholder has to enforce specified provisions of Swiss corporate law or our Articles of Association, shareholder rights to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. Furthermore, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon Holdings or upon its non-U.S. management or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. We have been advised by Swiss counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts in Switzerland would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Switzerland against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Swiss counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Switzerland providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Swiss courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Switzerland, it may be difficult for investors to recover against us based upon such judgments. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. Regulatory constraints may make it difficult for persons or groups to acquire a large block of our common shares, if such ownership is viewed as indirect control over our operating insurance subsidiaries. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of Bermuda exempted companies. Before any person acquires 10% or more of the voting shares, either directly or indirectly, of any of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, that shareholder must file an acquisition statement with and obtain prior approval from the domiciliary insurance commissioner of the respective company. Similar provisions apply to our Lloyd’s corporate member. Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of our non-U.S. companies could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our non-U.S. companies, including our Swiss, Bermuda and Irish companies, have operated and will operate their respective businesses in a manner that will not cause them to be subject to U.S. tax (other than certain U.S. federal excise and withholding taxes) on the basis that none of them are engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, there are no definitive standards under current law as to those activities that constitute a U.S. trade or business and the determination of whether a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. If any of the non-U.S. companies is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and does not qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty, such company may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at regular corporate rates on its premium income from U.S. sources and investment income that is effectively connected with its U.S. trade or business. In addition, a U.S. federal branch profits tax at the rate of 30% may be imposed on the earnings and 37 Table of Contents profits attributable to such income. All of the premium income from U.S. sources and a significant portion of investment income of such company, as computed under Section 842 of the Code, requiring that a foreign company carrying on a U.S. insurance or reinsurance business have a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risks insured or reinsured by such company, may be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes. If Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, or any Bermuda insurance subsidiary we form or acquire in the future is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualifies for benefits under the United States-Bermuda tax treaty, U.S. federal income taxation of such subsidiary will depend on whether (i) it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment and (ii) the relief from taxation under the treaty generally applies to non-premium income. We believe that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether an insurance company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profit tax at the rate of 30% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. Furthermore, although the provisions of the treaty clearly apply to premium income, it is uncertain whether they generally apply to other income of a Bermuda insurance company. Therefore, if a Bermuda insurance subsidiary of our company qualifies for benefits under the treaty and does not maintain a U.S. permanent establishment but is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, and the treaty is interpreted not to apply to income other than premium income, such subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes on its investment and other non-premium income as described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, a Bermuda subsidiary will qualify for benefits under the treaty only if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. If any of our Swiss or Irish companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualify for benefits under the relevant income tax treaty with the United States, U.S. federal income taxation of such company will depend on whether it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. We believe that each such company has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether a non-U.S. company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that any of such companies maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, the company will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profits tax at the rate of 5% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. U.S. federal income tax, if imposed, will be based on effectively connected or attributable income of a non-U.S. company computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that all deductions and credits claimed by a non-U.S. company in a taxable year can be disallowed if the company does not file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year. Penalties may be assessed for failure to file such return. None of our non-U.S. companies filed U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 and 2001 taxable years. However, we have filed protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis for each non-U.S. company for subsequent years in order to preserve our right to claim tax deductions and credits in such years if any of such companies is determined to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If any of our non-U.S. companies is subject to such U.S. federal taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in connection with our interaffiliate arrangements. Our U.S. subsidiaries reinsure a significant portion of their insurance policies with Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. While we believe that the terms of these reinsurance arrangements are arm’s length, we cannot 38 Table of Contents assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that the payments made by the U.S. subsidiaries with respect to such arrangements exceed arm’s length amounts. In such case, our U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as realizing additional income that may be subject to additional U.S. income tax, possibly with interest and penalties. Such excess amount may also be deemed to have been distributed as dividends to the indirect parent of the U.S. subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, in which case this deemed dividend will also be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 5%, assuming that the parent is eligible for benefits under the United States-Ireland income tax treaty (or a withholding tax of 30% if the parent is not so eligible). If any of these U.S. taxes are imposed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if legislation is enacted in the U.S. that limits or eliminates our ability to enter into interaffiliate arrangements, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or pay dividends out of legal reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction or out of legal reserves is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve such dividends, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions or out of legal reserves will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or pay a dividend out of legal reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes. The repurchase of our shares to be held in treasury will generally not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, under Swiss law, we are generally prohibited from holding in treasury an aggregate amount of voting shares and non-voting shares in excess of 10% of our aggregate share capital, which could limit our ability to repurchase our shares in the future. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation with respect to income of our non-U.S. companies and ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of our shares under the controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) rules. Generally, each “United States shareholder” of a CFC will be subject to (i) U.S. federal income taxation on its ratable share of the CFC’s subpart F income, even if the earnings attributable to such income are not distributed, provided that such “United States shareholder” holds directly or through non-U.S. entities shares of the CFC; and (ii) potential ordinary income characterization of gains from the sale or exchange of the directly owned shares of the non-U.S. corporation. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns directly, through non-U.S. entities, or under applicable constructive ownership rules, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of any non-U.S. company will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” An insurance company is classified as a CFC only if its “United States shareholders” own 25% or more of the vote or value of its stock. Although our non-U.S. companies may be or become CFCs, for the following reasons we believe it is unlikely that any U.S. person holding our shares directly, or through non-U.S. entities, would be subject to tax as a “United States shareholder.” First, although certain of our principal U.S. shareholders previously owned 10% or more of our common shares, no such shareholder currently owns more than 10%. We will be classified as a CFC only if United States shareholders own 25% or more of our stock; one United States shareholder alone will not be subject to tax on subpart F income unless that shareholder owns 25% or more of our stock or there is at least one other United States shareholder that in combination with the first United States shareholder owns 25% or more of our common 39 Table of Contents stock. Second, our Articles of Association provide that no individual or legal entity may, directly or through Constructive Ownership (as defined in Article 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register and authorize our Board of Directors to refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights under certain circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that the provisions of the Articles of Association referenced in this paragraph will operate as intended or that we will be otherwise successful in preventing a U.S. person from exceeding, or being deemed to exceed, these voting limitations. Accordingly, U.S. persons who hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the related person insurance income (“RPII”) rules. Our non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may currently insure and reinsure and may continue to insure and reinsure directly or indirectly certain of our U.S. shareholders and persons related to such shareholders. We believe that U.S. persons that hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to the income realized in connection with such insurance and reinsurance prior to distribution of earnings attributable to such income either on the basis (i) that RPII, determined on a gross basis, realized by each non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiary will be less than 20% of its gross insurance income in each taxable year; or (ii) that at all times during the year U.S. insureds hold less than 20% of the combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote and hold less than 20% of the total value of our shares. However, the identity of all of our shareholders, as well as some of the factors that determine the extent of RPII in any period, may be beyond our knowledge or control. For example, we may be considered to insure indirectly the risk of our shareholder if an unrelated company that insured such risk in the first instance reinsures such risk with us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping the RPII realized by the non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit in each taxable year. Furthermore, even if we are successful in keeping the RPII or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish that fact to the satisfaction of the U.S. tax authorities. If we are unable to establish that the RPII of any non-U.S. insurance or reinsurance subsidiary is less than 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, and no other exception from the RPII rules applies, each U.S. person who owns our shares, directly or through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year will be generally required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of us by U.S. insureds is below 20%) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and these rules appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret these rules in this manner or that the proposed regulations addressing the RPII rules will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). A U.S. tax-exempt entity holding our shares generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to dividends and gains on our shares, provided that such entity does not purchase our shares with borrowed funds. However, if a U.S. tax-exempt entity realizes income with respect to our shares under the CFC or RPII rules, as discussed above, such entity will be generally subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to 40 Table of Contents such income as UBTI. Accordingly, U.S. tax-exempt entities that are potential investors in our shares should consider the possible application of the CFC and RPII rules. You may be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of our shares under the passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) rules. We believe that U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares under the PFIC rules. We expect that our insurance subsidiaries will be predominantly engaged in, and derive their income from the active conduct of, an insurance business and will not hold reserves in excess of reasonable needs of their business, and therefore qualify for the insurance exception from the PFIC rules. However, the determination of the nature of such business and the reasonableness of such reserves is inherently factual. Furthermore, we cannot assure you, as to what positions the IRS or a court might take in the future regarding the application of the PFIC rules to us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered to be a PFIC. If we are considered to be a PFIC, U.S. persons holding our shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares. Accordingly, each U.S. person who is considering an investment in our shares should consult his or her tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Our non-U.K. companies and/or non-Irish companies may become subject to U.K. tax or Irish tax, respectively, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Two of our subsidiaries, Allied World Capital (Europe) Limited and 2232 Services Limited, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and, are therefore, subject to tax in the United Kingdom. None of our other companies should be treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in the United Kingdom. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies currently intend to manage our affairs so that none of our other companies are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. A non-U.K. resident company will only be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Such a company is, in broad terms, taxable on the profits and gains attributable to the U.K. permanent establishment. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited (which has an established branch in the United Kingdom), currently intend to operate in such a manner so as not to carry on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. The Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited branch in London constitutes a permanent establishment and the profits attributable to such permanent establishment are subject to U.K. corporation tax. The United Kingdom has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. In some circumstances companies neither resident in the United Kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the United Kingdom and their residency jurisdiction may be exposed to U.K. income tax (other than by deduction or withholding) on income arising in the United Kingdom. However, each of our companies currently operates in such a manner that we expect none to fall within the charge to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. Companies resident in Ireland are generally subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. Other than Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, AWAC Services Company (Ireland) Limited and Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd (our “Irish companies”), no Holdings subsidiary should be treated as being resident in Ireland unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in Ireland. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, and is wholly a question of fact. Our subsidiary companies, other than the Irish companies, currently intend to operate in a manner such that central management and control of each is exercised outside of Ireland. Nevertheless, because central management and control is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that the central management and control of any of our companies is exercised in Ireland, which would subject such company to Irish corporation tax on worldwide income and capital gains. 41 Table of Contents The trading income of a company not resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes can also be subject to Irish corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Each of our companies currently intend to operate in a manner such that no company carries on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor Irish legislation definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, other than our Irish companies, is trading through a branch or agency in Ireland. Should this occur, such companies will be subject to Irish corporation tax on profits attributable to that branch or agency. If any subsidiary, other than our U.K. resident or Irish companies were treated as being resident in the United Kingdom or Ireland, respectively, for corporate tax purposes, or were treated as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom or Ireland through a branch agency or of having a permanent establishment in such country, results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various E.U. Member States have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the E.U. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the E.U. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. Should, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If investments held by our Irish companies are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. Our Irish companies intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by our Irish companies. If, however, investment income earned by our Irish companies exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 42 Table of Contents GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND OTHER TERMS Admitted insurer An insurer that is licensed or authorized to write insurance in a particular state; to be distinguished from an insurer eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance on risks located within a jurisdiction. Assumed reinsurance That portion of a risk that a reinsurer accepts from an insurer in return for a stated premium. Attachment point The loss point of which an insurance or reinsurance policy becomes operative and below which any losses are retained by either the insured or other insurers or reinsurers, as the case may be. Acquisition costs Comprised of commissions, brokerage fees and insurance taxes. Commissions and brokerage fees are usually calculated as a percentage of premiums and depend on the market and line of business. Acquisition costs are reported after (1) deducting commissions received on ceded reinsurance, (2) deducting the part of acquisition costs relating to unearned premiums and (3) including the amortization of previously deferred acquisition costs. Acquisition cost ratio Calculated by dividing “acquisition costs” by “net premiums earned”. Capacity The maximum percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire portfolio of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions. Case reserves Loss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims. Casualty lines Insurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others. Catastrophe exposure or event A severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophe reinsurance A form of excess-of-loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a “catastrophe cover.” These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover other types of insurance losses such as workers’ compensation policies. Cede, cedent, ceding company When an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “ceding company” or “cedent.” Combined ratio Calculated as the sum of the “loss and loss expense ratio”, the “acquisition cost ratio” and the “general and administrative expense ratio”. 43 Table of Contents Commercial coverage Insurance products that are sold to entities and individuals in their business or professional capacity, and which are intended for other than the insured’s personal or household use. Coverholder A Lloyd’s approved service company that is authorized to enter into policies or contracts of insurance and reinsurance to be underwritten by the Lloyd’s syndicate in accordance with the terms of a binding authority or service company agreement. Deductible The amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Retention.” Direct insurance Insurance sold by an insurer that contracts directly with the insured, as distinguished from reinsurance. Directors and officers liability Insurance that covers liability for corporate directors and officers for wrongful acts, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy. Earned premiums or Premiums earned That portion of premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both statutory accounting practice and U.S. GAAP. Employment practices liability insurance Insurance that primarily provides liability coverage to organizations and their employees for losses arising from acts of discrimination, harassment and retaliation against current and prospective employees of the organization. Errors and omissions insurance Insurance that provides liability coverage for claims arising from professional negligence or malpractice, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy. Excess and surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers; or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. Excess layer Insurance to cover losses in one or more layers above a certain amount with losses below that amount usually covered by the insured’s primary policy and its self-insured retention. Excess-of-loss reinsurance Reinsurance that indemnifies the insured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified amount or “retention.” Exclusions Provisions in an insurance or reinsurance policy excluding certain risks or otherwise limiting the scope of coverage. Expense ratio Calculated by adding the “acquisition cost ratio” and the “general and administrative cost ratio”. Exposure The possibility of loss. A unit of measure of the amount of risk a company assumes. Facultative reinsurance The reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately negotiated. 44 Table of Contents Fiduciary liability insurance Insurance that primarily provides liability coverage to fiduciaries of employee benefit and welfare plans for losses arising from the breach of any fiduciary duty owed to plan beneficiaries. Frequency The number of claims occurring during a specified period of time. General and administrative expense ratio Calculated by dividing “general and administrative expenses” by “net premiums earned”. General casualty Insurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others. Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance and reinsurance written during a given period. Healthcare liability or Healthcare lines Insurance coverage, often referred to as medical malpractice insurance, which addresses liability risks of doctors, surgeons, nurses, other healthcare professionals and the institutions (hospitals, clinics) in which they practice. Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) reserves Reserves established by us for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us as well as for changes in the values of claims that have been reported to us but are not yet settled. In-force Policies that have not expired or been terminated and for which the insurer remains on risk as of a given date. Limits The maximum amount that an insurer or reinsurer will insure or reinsure for a specified risk, a portfolio of risks or on a single insured entity. The term also refers to the maximum amount of benefit payable for a given claim or occurrence. Loss development The difference between the original loss as initially reserved by an insurer or reinsurer and its subsequent evaluation at a later date or at the time of its closure. Loss development occurs because of inflation and time lags between the occurrence of claims and the time they are actually reported to an insurer or reinsurer. To account for these increases, a “loss development factor” or multiplier is usually applied to a claim or group of claims in an effort to more accurately project the ultimate amount that will be paid. Losses incurred The total losses and loss adjustment expenses paid, plus the change in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including IBNR, sustained by an insurance or reinsurance company under its insurance policies or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. Losses and loss expense ratio Calculated by dividing net “losses and loss expenses” by “net premiums earned”. Losses and loss expenses “Losses” are an occurrence that is the basis for submission or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the insurance policy or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. “Loss expenses” are the expenses incurred by an insurance or reinsurance company in settling a loss. 45 Table of Contents Loss reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this Form 10-K, “loss reserves” is meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses. Loss year The year to which a claim is attributed based upon the terms in the underlying policy or contract. All years referred to are years ending December 31. Net premiums earned The portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was recognized as income during such period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written, less premiums ceded to reinsurers. Paid losses Claim amounts paid to insureds or ceding companies. Per occurrence limitations The maximum amount recoverable under an insurance or reinsurance policy as a result of any one event, regardless of the number of claims. Primary insurance Insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A primary insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a primary insurance layer typically assume an element of regular loss frequency. Probable maximum loss An estimate of the loss on any given insurance policy or group of policies at some pre-defined probability of occurrence. The probability of occurrence is usually expressed in terms of the number of years between loss events of that size (e.g., 1 in 100 years or 1 in 200 years). Producer A licensed professional, often referred to as an insurance agent, insurance broker or intermediary, who acts as intermediary between the insurance carrier and the insured or reinsured (as the case may be). Product liability Insurance that provides coverage to manufacturer and/or distributors of tangible goods against liability for personal injury caused if such products are unsafe or defective. Professional liability Insurance that provides liability coverage to directors and officers, attorneys, doctors, accountants and other professionals who offer services to the general public and claim expertise in a particular area greater than the ordinary layperson for their negligence or malfeasance. Property catastrophe coverage In reinsurance, coverage that protects the ceding company against accumulated losses in excess of a stipulated sum that arise from a catastrophic event such as an earthquake, fire or windstorm. “Catastrophe loss” generally refers to the total loss of an insurer arising out of a single catastrophic event. Quota share reinsurance A proportional reinsurance treaty in which the ceding company cedes an agreed-on percentage of every risk it insures that falls within a class or classes of business subject to the treaty. 46 Table of Contents Reinsurance The practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance that it has issued. Reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this report, “reserves” are meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses. Retention The amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Deductible.” Retrocessional coverage A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity. Run-off Liability of an insurance or reinsurance company for existing claims that it expects to pay in the future and for which a loss reserve has been established. Self-insured A term which describes a risk, or part of a risk, retained by the insured in lieu of transferring the risk to an insurer. A policy deductible or retention feature allows a policyholder to self-insure a portion of an exposure and thereby reduce its risk-transfer costs. Specialty lines A term used in the insurance and reinsurance industry to describe types of insurance or classes of business that require specialized expertise to underwrite. Insurance and reinsurance for these classes of business is not widely available and is typically purchased from the specialty lines divisions of larger insurance companies or from small specialty lines insurers. Subpart F income Insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) and foreign personal holding company income (including interest, dividends and other passive investment income). Surplus (or statutory surplus) As determined under statutory accounting principles, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all of the “admitted” assets (i.e., those permitted by regulation to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet). Surplus is also referred to as “statutory surplus” or “surplus as regards policyholders” for statutory accounting purposes. Surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. 47 Table of Contents Treaties Reinsurance contracts under which the ceding company agrees to cede and the reinsurer agrees to assume risks of a particular class or classes of business. Treaty year The year in which the contract incepts. Exposure from contracts incepting during the current treaty year will potentially affect both the current loss year as well future loss years. Ultimate loss Total of all expected settlement amounts, whether paid or reserved together with any associated loss adjustment expenses, and is the estimated total amount of loss at the measurement date. For purposes of this Form 10-K, “ultimate loss” is the sum of paid losses, case reserves and IBNR. Underwriter An employee of an insurance or reinsurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business. Underwriting results The pre-tax profit or loss experienced by an insurance company that is calculated by deducting net losses and loss expenses, net acquisition costs and general and administration expenses from net premiums earned. This profit or loss calculation includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but excludes investment income. Unearned premium The portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term or underlying risk. Working layer Primary insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A working layer insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a working layer typically assume an element of loss frequency. 48 Table of Contents 