ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us, and you should not place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. 23 Risks Relating to the Economic Environment The unprecedented levels of market volatility may adversely impact our ability to access capital or our business, financial condition and results of operations. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels, adversely impacting the stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers, often without regard to their financial capabilities. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or further deteriorate, our ability to access capital or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Negative developments in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. In addition, as a consequence of the recession in the United States, beginning in the latter half of 2007 business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land development loans, residential real estate loans, and commercial real estate loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected. In addition, the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become more difficult compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Further downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business. Substantially all of our real estate loans are located in Puerto Rico. While we do not have any subprime loans, our construction and development and residential real estate loan portfolios, along with our commercial real estate loan portfolio and certain of our other loans, have been affected by the recent downturn in the residential and commercial real estate market. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market areas would affect our business. If real estate values continue to decline, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. 24 Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that any such losses or defaults would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") was enacted. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the Troubled Assets Relief Program Capital Purchase Program, and the Capital Assistance Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLG Program"), in which we are a participant. However, there can be no assurance that we will issue any guaranteed debt under the TLG Program, or that we will participate in any other stabilization programs in the future. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA is relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The prolonged economic crisis in Puerto Rico could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. The prolonged period of reduced economic growth or recession has had an adverse effect on delinquencies, the quality of our loan and corporate bond portfolios. During a prolonged economic downturn, affected borrowers may, among other things, be less likely to repay interest and principal on their loans or bonds as scheduled. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures the loans and bonds could continue to be adversely affected by the prolonged economic downturn. If this prolonged economic slowdown persists, aforementioned adverse effects may continue and would likely result in, among other things, a reduction in loan originations, increased delinquency rates, increased non-performing assets, foreclosures and loan loss provisions, adversely impacting our profitability. Risks Relating to Our Business Our financial results are constantly exposed to the market risk. As a traditional commercial bank, Eurobank, our wholly-owned banking subsidiary, earns interest on loans, leases and investment securities that are funded by customer deposits, borrowings, retained earnings and equity. The difference between the interest received and the interest paid has historically comprised the majority of our earnings. Depending on the maturity and repricing characteristics of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, changes in interest rates could either increase or decrease our net interest income. During the last fourteen months, changes in the interbank borrowing rates by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve have resulted in a 400 basis points reduction of the Prime Rate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 73.63% of our non-consumer loan portfolio was comprised of floating rate loans, most of them tied to the Prime Rate. Decreases in interest rates may result in a reduced interest income in the short-term, while depositors will likely continue to expect a reasonable rate on their deposit accounts, probably resulting in a further margin compression. The future outlook on interest rates and their impact on our interest income, interest expense and net interest income is uncertain. 25 Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate, and our allowance for loan and lease losses may be inadequate, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our loan and lease portfolio and investments in marketable securities subject us to credit risk. Inherent risks in lending also include fluctuations in collateral values and economic downturns. Making loans and leases is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that our loans and leases will not be repaid. As of December 31, 2008, our nonperforming assets amounted to $177.4 million, compared to $111.6 million and $63.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan and lease losses totaled $41.6 million, which represents approximately 2.33% of our total loans and leases. There is no precise method of predicting loan and lease losses, and therefore, we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan and lease losses and that we would need to make additional provisions to our allowance for loan and lease losses. For the general portion of our allowance, we follow a consistent procedural discipline and account for loan and lease loss contingencies in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. This estimated allowance is based on historical loss experiences as adjusted for changes in trends and conditions on at least an annual basis. Also, another component is used in the evaluation of the adequacy of our general allowance to measure the probable effect that current internal and external environmental factors could have on the historical loss factors currently in use. In addition to our general portfolio allowances, specific allowances are established in cases where management has identified significant conditions or circumstances related to a credit that management believes indicate a high probability that a loss have been incurred. These specific allowances are determined following a consistent procedural discipline in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan (“SFAS No. 114”), as amended by SFAS No. 118, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan – Income Recognition and Disclosures. For impaired commercial and construction business relationships with aggregate balances exceeding $150,000, we measure the impairment following the guidance of SFAS No. 114. While our allowance for loan and lease losses is established in different portfolio components, we maintain an allowance that we believe is sufficient to absorb all credit losses inherent in our portfolio. Notwithstanding these procedures, our allowance may prove to be inadequate, causing us to establish additional reserves. In addition, we follow supervisory guidance included in the 2006 Interagency Policy Statement on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses. The FDIC as well as the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in our net earnings and capital and could hinder our ability to grow our assets. We have a concentration of exposure to a number of individual borrowers, and a significant loss on any one of these credits could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under applicable law, there are quantitative limitations on the amount of loans we can make to one borrower or a group of related borrowers. As of December 31, 2008, our legal lending limit was approximately $14.9 million in the unsecured category and approximately $33.1 million in the secured category. As of December 31, 2008, we had 36 individual borrowers with a loan principal balance of more than $5.0 million and less than $10.0 million per borrower, and another 25 individual borrowers with a loan principal balance of more than $10.0 million per borrower. Given the size of these current outstanding loans relative to our capital levels and earnings, a significant loss on any one of these credits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. 26 A significant portion of our leases are secured by automobiles, and the loss of purchasers for our leases or a downturn in automobile purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. A significant portion of our leases are secured by automobiles. As of December 31, 2008, the total amount of automobile leases was $264.0 million or 98.74% of our total leasing portfolio. We sometimes sell our leases to other financial institutions in order to manage our lease financing concentration. The loss of purchasers of our leases could cause us to reduce our lease originations, reducing our net income. Alternatively, we may increase the portion of the leases that we retain for our portfolio with the result that our exposure to automobile leases will increase. In addition, a downturn in automobile purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. We rely heavily on short-term funding sources to meet our liquidity needs, such as broker deposits and repurchase obligations, which are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and can be adversely affected by local and general economic conditions. We have frequently utilized as a source of funds certificates of deposit obtained through deposit brokers that solicit funds from their customers for deposit with us, or broker deposits. Broker deposits, when compared to retail deposits attracted through a branch network, are generally more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets, which may force us to pay above-market interest rates to retain these deposits, reducing our net interest spread and net interest margin. In addition, broker deposit funding sources may be more sensitive to significant changes in our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, broker deposits amounted to $1.424 billion, or approximately 68.31% of our total deposits, compared to $1.337 billion and $1.226 billion, or approximately 67.06% and 64.35% of our total deposits, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $922.0 million in broker deposits, or approximately 64.75% of our total broker deposits, mature within one year. Our ability to continue to acquire broker deposits is subject to our ability to price these deposits at competitive levels, which may substantially increase our funding costs, and the confidence of the market. In addition, if our capital ratios fall below the levels necessary to be considered “well-capitalized” under current regulatory guidelines, we could be restricted in using broker deposits as a short-term funding source. Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDIA”) limits the use of brokered deposits by institutions that are less than “well-capitalized” and allows the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to place restrictions on interest rates that institutions may pay. On February 3, 2009, the FDIC released a proposed rule to implement new interest rate restrictions on institutions that are not “well-capitalized.” The proposed rule would limit the interest rate paid by such institutions to 75 basis points above a national rate, as derived from the interest rate average of all institutions. If an institution could provide evidence that its local rate is higher, it would be permitted to offer the higher local rate plus 75 basis points. Although we continue to be “well-capitalized,” these restrictions, if they become applicable, could materially impact our ability to generate sufficient deposits to maintain an adequate liquidity position. We also have borrowings in the form of repurchase obligations with the Federal Home Loan Bank, or the FHLB, and other broker-dealers. These agreements are collateralized by some of our investment securities. As of December 31, 2008, our repurchase obligations totaled $556.5 million, of which $87.8 million, or approximately 15.78% of the total repurchase obligations, mature within one year. If we are unable to borrow in the form of repurchase obligations, we may be required to seek higher cost funding sources, which could materially and adversely affect our net interest income. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, and we may be unable to successfully continue to implement our growth strategy, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our assets have grown rapidly in recent years. With the ultimate goal of increasing net income, we have grown our assets from $1.321 billion as of December 31, 2003 to $2.860 billion As of December 31, 2008. The types of assets on our balance sheet that have experienced the largest categorical increases are commercial loans and investments. We have funded this growth, in part, with broker deposits, FHLB advances, and other borrowings. These types of funds are generally more costly and volatile than traditional retail deposits. 27 We may not be able to sustain our current growth rate. Throughout our expansion, we have been successful in attracting new customers, expanding new services to existing customers, adding new business lines, engaging in acquisitions and increasing our deposit base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue this trend, and it will become more difficult to maintain sustained growth as we increase in size. Our ability to implement our strategy for continued growth depends on our ability to attract and retain customers in a highly competitive market, on the growth of those customers’ businesses, on entering and expanding in lines of business in which we do not have significant past experience or for which we have only recently added personnel with the requisite experience, on our ability to continue to identify new acquisition targets and on our ability to increase our deposit base. Many of these growth prerequisites may be affected by circumstances that are beyond our control. Our inability to meet any of these growth prerequisites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our success has been and will continue to be greatly influenced by our ability to retain the services of existing senior management and, as we expand, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. Rafael Arrillaga-Torréns, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer, has been instrumental in managing our business affairs. Our other senior executive officers have had, and will continue to have, a significant role in the development and management of our business. The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. We have not established a detailed management succession plan. Accordingly, should we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers, our Board of Directors may have to search outside of EuroBancshares for a qualified permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our senior executive officers. We currently do not have any employment agreements with our senior executive officers, with the exception of a Change in Control Agreement with Rafael Arrillaga-Torréns, Jr., our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Yadira R. Mercado, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Luis J. Berríos López, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer. If any of our senior executive officers leaves his or her respective position, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects may suffer. The regulatory capital treatment of our junior subordinated debentures and related trust preferred securities is uncertain. Financial holding companies with more than $1.0 billion in assets, like us, must maintain minimum consolidated capital ratios. In particular, we must maintain, at least, a leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets of 5.0%; a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; and a total risk-based capital ratio (Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) of 10.0% of risk-weighted assets to be considered “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. The Federal Reserve Board’s current rules regarding the capital treatment of trust preferred securities allow us to count trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital up to 25.0% of our total Tier 1 capital for regulatory purposes. The remaining portion counts as Tier 2 capital. On March 1, 2005, the Federal Reserve Board adopted the final rule that allows the continued limited inclusion of trust preferred securities in the Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies (BHCs). Under the final rule, trust preferred securities and other restricted core capital elements would be subject to stricter quantitative limits. The Federal Reserve Board’s final rule limits restricted core capital elements to 25% of all core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. Amounts of restricted core capital elements in excess of these limits generally may be included in Tier 2 capital. The final rule provides a five-year transition period, ending March 31, 2009, for application of the quantitative limits. As of December 31, 2008, we had $20.0 million in trust preferred securities of which all counted as Tier 1 capital. A determination by the Federal Reserve Board not to continue to allow the inclusion of our junior subordinated debentures or the trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, or otherwise limiting the inclusion of such debentures or securities in Tier 1 capital, could have a material and adverse impact on our regulatory capital levels and cause our capital ratios to fall below the levels necessary to be considered “well-capitalized” under current regulatory guidelines. This could impact our ability to grow our assets. In addition, inadequate regulatory capital levels may result in the imposition of certain operating restrictions on us and Eurobank, including restrictions in using broker deposits as a short-term funding source. 28 Eurobank entered into a Cease and Desist Order with the FDIC regarding its compliance with anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act. On March 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Bank, the wholly-owned banking subsidiary of EuroBancshares, consented to the issuance of a Cease and Desist Order by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation based upon the findings of the FDIC and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions relating to deficiencies in the Bank’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Program. Under the terms of the FDIC order, the Bank is required to make specific improvements to its anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance activities. While Eurobank believes that it will be able to implement effective compliance procedures necessary to remediate the deficiencies identified in the FDIC order, in the event that Eurobank is unable to satisfy the requirements imposed by the FDIC order, Eurobank may become subject to monetary fines and penalties as well as additional restrictions on its banking operations, which could affect its ability to execute certain aspects of its business plan. Such measures could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuation in response to numerous factors, including variations in our annual or quarterly financial results or those of our competitors, changes by financial research analysts in their evaluation of our financial results or those of our competitors, or our failure or that of our competitors to meet such estimates, conditions in the economy in general or the banking industry in particular, or unfavorable publicity affecting us or the banking industry. The equity markets, in general, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies’ securities and have been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These fluctuations may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. Nasdaq may cease to list our common stock, which may cause the value of an investment in our Company to substantially decrease. The bid price of our common stock fell below $1.00 per share on February 18, 2009, which is the minimum bid price required to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. In the event that the bid price of our common stock remains below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive trading days, Nasdaq will issue a letter of non-compliance that will provide us with up to 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the listing requirements. We are susceptible to volatility of our stock and could remain out of compliance if appropriate steps are not taken to cure our non-compliance. In the event that we receive such a notification from Nasdaq and it appears that the minimum bid price of our common stock will not exceed $1.00 per share within the applicable compliance period, we may seek to effect a reverse stock split for the purpose of regaining compliance. Any proposal to pursue a reverse stock split would be subject to shareholder approval. We can give no assurances that the steps we propose will be approved by our stockholders or that they will be effective in curing our non-compliance. In addition, we may not meet other Nasdaq Global Select Market continued listing requirements, which could result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global Select Market might adversely affect the trading price and limit the liquidity of our common stock and therefore may cause the value of an investment in our Company to decrease. Our executive officers and directors own a significant number of shares of our common stock, allowing management to significant control over our corporate affairs. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors beneficially own 41.26% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers and directors will be able to control, to a significant extent, the outcome of all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of directors, the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies and other significant corporate transactions. 29 Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. First, we have adopted a stock option plan that provides for the granting of stock options to our directors, executive officers and other employees. As of December 31, 2008, 535,570 shares of our common stock were issuable under options granted in connection with our stock option plans. In addition, 400,130 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance to directors, officers and employees under our stock option plan. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 150,000,000 shares of common stock, but does not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in EuroBancshares. Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, there were 19,499,515 shares of our common stock outstanding, which are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws unless purchased or sold by our “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. On December 19, 2002, we issued $20.6 million of floating rate junior subordinated interest debentures in connection with a $20.0 million trust preferred securities issuance by our subsidiary, Eurobank Statutory Trust II. The 2002 junior subordinated debentures mature in 2032. The purpose of this transaction was to raise additional capital to fund our continued growth. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of Eurobank Statutory Trust II are conditionally guaranteed by us. The 2002 junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the 2002 junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. In connection with our acquisition of BankTrust, we issued 430,537 shares in the amount of $10.8 million of our Series A Preferred Stock to certain stockholders of BankTrust in exchange for their shares of the Series A and Series B preferred stock of BankTrust. Our Series A Preferred Stock has rights and preferences that could adversely affect holders of our common stock. For example, we generally are unable to declare and pay dividends on our common stock if there are any accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock for the preceding twelve months. Additionally, upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of our business, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive distributions out of our available assets before any distributions can be made to holders of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or could otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, our bylaws contain advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings. We also have a staggered board of directors, which means that only one-third of our Board of Directors can be replaced by stockholders at any annual meeting. 30 We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gains for the foreseeable future. We have not historically and we currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. In addition, since we are a financial holding company with no significant assets other than Eurobank, we have no material source of income other than dividends that we receive from Eurobank. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on Eurobank’s ability to pay dividends to us. Moreover, banks and bank holding companies are both subject to federal and Puerto Rico regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. We intend to retain the earnings of Eurobank to support growth and build equity capital. Accordingly, you should not expect to receive dividends from us in the foreseeable future. We are also restricted from paying dividends on our common stock if we have deferred payments of the interest on, or an event of default has occurred with respect to, our junior subordinated debentures. In addition, we generally are unable to declare and pay dividends on our common stock if there are any accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock for the preceding 12 months. Shares of our common stock are not insured deposits. An investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. An investment in our common stock is subject to investment risk, and an investor must be capable of affording the loss of his or her entire investment. Risks Related to United States Taxation If we or any of our subsidiaries are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, U.S. holders of our stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences. If we or any of our subsidiaries are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, known as a “PFIC,” U.S. holders could be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if either we or any of our subsidiaries are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder would generally be subject to taxation under special rules, regardless of whether we or any of our subsidiaries remains a PFIC, with respect to (1) any “excess distribution” made by us to the U.S. holders during that taxable year, and (2) any gain realized on the sale, pledge or other disposition during that taxable year of our common stock or the stock of the subsidiary that was determined to be a PFIC. These rules could, in addition to other consequences, cause certain income otherwise classified as capital gain to be taxed at ordinary income rates or the highest rate of tax for ordinary income in the year to which it is allocated regardless of the U.S. holder’s particular tax situation and cause the U.S. holder to be subject to an interest charge on the deemed deferred amount at the underpayment rate. “Excess distributions” generally are any distributions received by the U.S. holder on the common stock in a taxable year that exceed 125% of the average annual distributions received by the U.S. holder in the three preceding taxable years, or the U.S. holder’s holding period for the common stock, if shorter. We believe that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries will be determined to be a PFIC in our current taxable year, and we expect to continue to conduct our affairs in a manner so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries qualifies as a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, we have not requested or received an opinion from our United States tax counsel as to whether we will be determined to be a PFIC in our current taxable year and we can give no assurance in this regard. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 