D. RISK FACTORS The securities of Northern Dynasty are highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. A prospective investor or other person reviewing Northern Dynasty for a prospective investor should not consider an investment in Northern Dynasty unless the investor is capable of sustaining an economic loss of their entire investment. The risks associated with Northern Dynasty’s business include: Inability to Achieve Mine Permitting of the Pebble Project The principal risk facing the Company is that it will be ultimately be unable to secure the necessary permits under United States Federal and Alaskan State laws to build a mine at Pebble. There are prominent and well organized opponents of the Pebble Project and the Company may be unable, despite developing solid scientific and technical evidence of risk mitigation, to overcome such opposition and convince mining regulatory authorities that a mine should be permitted at Pebble. If we are unable to secure the necessary permits to build a mine at the Pebble Project, we may be unable to achieve revenues from operations and/or recover our investment in the Pebble Project. Negative Operating Cash Flow The Company currently has a negative operating cash flow and will continue to have that for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Company will require substantial additional capital in order to fund its future exploration and development activities. The Company does not have any arrangements in place for this funding and there is no assurance that such funding will be achieved when required. Any failure to obtain additional financing or failure to achieve profitability and positive operating cash flows will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company believes it is likely a "passive foreign investment company" which may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. shareholders should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") during one or more previous tax years, and may be a PFIC in the current tax year and possibly in subsequent tax years. If the Company is a PFIC for any tax year during a U.S. shareholder's holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any so-called "excess distribution" received on its common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualified electing fund" election or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a qualified electing fund election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company's net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any tax year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer's basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations." Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the PFIC rules and the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. The Pebble Project is Subject to Political and Environmental Regulatory Opposition As is typical for a large scale mining project, the Pebble Project faces concerted opposition from many individuals and organizations who are motivated to preclude any possible mining in the Bristol Bay Watershed ("BBW"). The BBW is an important wildlife and salmon habitat area. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has gone so far as to suggest that it may peremptorily prevent the Pebble Project from proceeding even before a mine permitting application is filed. Accordingly one of the greatest risks to the Pebble Project is seen to be political/permitting risk which may ultimately preclude construction of a mine at Pebble. Northern Dynasty will require additional funding to meet the development objectives of the Pebble Project. Northern Dynasty will need to raise additional financing (share issuances, debt or asset level partnering) to achieve permitting and development of the Pebble Project. In addition, a positive production decision at the Pebble Project would require significant capital for project engineering and construction. Accordingly, the continuing development of the Pebble Project will depend upon Northern Dynasty’s ability to obtain financing through debt financing, equity financing, the joint venturing of the project, or other means. There can be no assurance that Northern Dynasty will be successful in obtaining the required financing, or that it will be able to raise the funds on terms that do not result in high levels of dilution to shareholders. -12 - The Pebble Partnership’s mineral property interests do not contain any ore reserves or any known body of economic mineralization. Although there are known bodies of mineralization on the Pebble Project, and the Pebble Partnership has completed core drilling programs within, and adjacent to, the deposits to determine measured and indicated resources, there are currently no known reserves or body of commercially viable ore and the Pebble Project must be considered an exploration prospect only. Extensive additional work is required before Northern Dynasty or the Pebble Partnership can ascertain if any mineralization may be economic and hence constitute "ore". Mineral Resources disclosed by Northern Dynasty or the Pebble Partnership for the Pebble Project are estimates only. Northern Dynasty has included mineral resource estimates that have been made in accordance with National Instrument 43-101. These resource estimates are classified as "measured resources", "indicated resources" and "inferred resources". Northern Dynasty advises investors that while these terms are mandated by Canadian securities administrators, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize these terms. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits classified as "measured resources" or "indicated resources" will ever be converted into ore reserves. Further, "inferred resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or prefeasibility studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that part or all of an inferred resource exists, or is economically or legally mineable. All amounts of mineral resources are estimates only, and Northern Dynasty cannot be certain that any specified level of recovery of metals from the mineralized material will in fact be realized or that the Pebble Project or any other identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body that can be economically exploited. Mineralized material which is not mineral reserves does not have demonstrated economic viability. In addition, the quantity of mineral reserves and mineral resources may vary depending on, among other things, metal prices and actual results of mining. There can be no assurance that any future economic or technical assessments undertaken by the Company with respect to the Pebble Project will demonstrate positive economics or feasibility. Northern Dynasty has no history of earnings and no foreseeable earnings, and may never achieve profitability or pay dividends. Northern Dynasty has only had losses since inception and there can be no assurance that Northern Dynasty will ever be profitable. Northern Dynasty has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation. Northern Dynasty presently has no ability to generate earnings as its mineral properties are in the pre-development stage. Northern Dynasty’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming Northern Dynasty will continue on a going concern basis. Northern Dynasty’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis that Northern Dynasty will continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2014, Northern Dynasty had working capital of approximately $9.4 million. Northern Dynasty has prioritized the allocation of available financial resources in order to meet key corporate and Pebble Project expenditure requirements in fiscal 2015. Additional financing will be required to pursue any material expenditures at the Pebble Project. Northern Dynasty’s continuing operations and the underlying value and recoverability of the amounts shown for mineral property interest are entirely dependent upon the existence of economically recoverable mineral reserves at the Pebble Project, the ability of the Company to finance the completion of the exploration and development of the Pebble Project, the Pebble Partnership obtaining the necessary permits to mine, and on future profitable production at the Pebble Project. Furthermore, failure to continue as a going concern would require that Northern Dynasty's assets and liabilities be restated on a liquidation basis, which would likely differ significantly from their going concern assumption carrying values. -13 - As the Pebble Project is Northern Dynasty’s principal mineral property interest, the failure to establish that the Pebble Project possesses commercially viable and legally mineable deposits of ore may cause a significant decline in the trading price of Northern Dynasty’s common shares and reduce its ability to obtain new financing. The Pebble Project is, through the Pebble Partnership, Northern Dynasty’s principal mineral property interest. Northern Dynasty’s principal business objective is to carry out further exploration and related activities to establish whether the Pebble Project possesses commercially viable deposits of ore. If Northern Dynasty is not successful in its plan of operations, Northern Dynasty may have to seek a new mineral property to explore or acquire an interest in a new mineral property or project. Northern Dynasty anticipates that such an outcome would possibly result in further declines in the trading price of Northern Dynasty’s common shares. Furthermore, Northern Dynasty anticipates that its ability to raise additional financing to fund exploration of a new property or the acquisition of a new property or project would be impaired as a result of the failure to establish commercial viability of the Pebble Project. If prices for copper, gold and molybdenum decline, Northern Dynasty may not be able to raise the additional financing required to fund expenditures for the Pebble Project. The ability of Northern Dynasty to raise financing to fund the Pebble Project, will be significantly affected by changes in the market price of the metals for which it explores. The prices of copper, gold and molybdenum are volatile, and are affected by numerous factors beyond Northern Dynasty’s control. The level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, the world supplies of and demands for copper, gold and molybdenum and the stability of exchange rates can all cause fluctuations in these prices. Such external economic factors are influenced by changes in international investment patterns and monetary systems and political developments. The prices of copper, gold and molybdenum have fluctuated in recent years, and future significant price declines could cause investors to be unprepared to finance exploration of copper, gold and molybdenum, with the result that Northern Dynasty may not have sufficient financing with which to fund its exploration activities Northern Dynasty competes with larger, better capitalized competitors in the mining industry. The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases, including financing, technical resources, personnel and property acquisition. It requires significant capital, technical resources, personnel and operational experience to effectively compete in the mining industry. Because of the high costs associated with exploration, the expertise required to analyze a project’s potential and the capital required to develop a mine, larger companies with significant resources may have a competitive advantage over Northern Dynasty. Northern Dynasty faces strong competition from other mining companies, some with greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than Northern Dynasty possesses. As a result of this competition, Northern Dynasty may be unable to maintain or acquire financing, personnel, technical resources or attractive mining properties on terms Northern Dynasty considers acceptable or at all. Compliance with environmental requirements will take considerable resources and changes to these requirements could significantly increase the costs of developing the Pebble Project and could delay these activities. The Pebble Partnership and Northern Dynasty must comply with stringent environmental legislation in carrying out work on the Pebble Project. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Changes in environmental legislation could increase the cost to the Pebble Partnership of carrying out its exploration and, if warranted, development of the Pebble Project. Further, compliance with new or additional environmental legislation may result in delays to the exploration and, if warranted, development activities. Changes in government regulations or the application thereof and the presence of unknown environmental hazards on Northern Dynasty’s mineral properties may result in significant unanticipated compliance and reclamation costs. Government regulations relating to mineral rights tenure, permission to disturb areas and the right to operate can adversely affect Northern Dynasty. Northern Dynasty and the Pebble Partnership may not be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration at our projects. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex, time-consuming and costly process. The duration and success of efforts to obtain permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control. Obtaining environmental permits may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. There can be no assurance that all necessary approvals and permits will be obtained and, if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those that we previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the compliance with such standards and regulations could become such that we would not proceed with the development or operation of a mine at the Pebble Project. Refer to further discussion in Item 8 - A3. Legal Proceedings. -14 - Litigation The Company is currently and may in future be subject to legal proceedings in the development of its Pebble Project. Given the uncertain nature of these actions, the Company cannot reasonably predict the outcome thereof. If the Company is unable to resolve these matters favorably it may have a material adverse effect of the Company. Northern Dynasty is subject to many risks that are not insurable and, as a result, Northern Dynasty will not be able to recover losses through insurance should such certain events occur. Hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations and other conditions are involved in mineral exploration and development. Northern Dynasty may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which it cannot insure. The payment of such liabilities could result in increase in Northern Dynasty’s operating expenses which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on Northern Dynasty’s financial position and its results of operations. Although Northern Dynasty and the Pebble Partnership maintain liability insurance in an amount which we consider adequate, the nature of these risks is such that the liabilities might exceed policy limits, the liabilities and hazards might not be insurable against, or Northern Dynasty and the Pebble Partnership might elect not to insure itself against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event Northern Dynasty could incur significant liabilities and costs that could materially increase Northern Dynasty’s operating expenses. The market price of Northern Dynasty’s common shares is subject to high volatility and could cause investor loss. The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource issuer like Northern Dynasty, is affected by many variables in addition to those directly related to exploration successes or failures. Such factors include the general condition of markets for resource stocks, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public markets for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the Company’s common shares suggests Northern Dynasty’s shares will continue to be volatile. Therefore, investors could suffer significant losses if Northern Dynasty’s shares are depressed or illiquid when an investor seeks liquidity and needs to sell Northern Dynasty shares. If Northern Dynasty loses the services of the key personnel that it engages to undertake its activities, then Northern Dynasty’s plan of operations may be delayed or be more expensive to undertake than anticipated. Northern Dynasty’s success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of certain independent contractors, including Hunter Dickinson Services Inc. ("HDSI"). The Company has access to the full resources of HDSI, an experienced exploration and development firm with in-house geologists, engineers and environmental specialists, to assist in its technical review of the Pebble Project. There can be no assurance that the services of all necessary key personnel will be available when required or if obtained, that the costs involved will not exceed those that we previously estimated. It is possible that the costs and delays associated with the loss of services of key personnel could become such that we would not proceed with the development or operation of a mine at the Pebble Project. 