ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks stated elsewhere in this annual report, set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe are material. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation could be harmed. You should also consider these risk factors when you read “forward-looking statements” elsewhere in this report. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “hope,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” ”potential” or “continue,” the negative of those terms or other comparable terms. Those forward-looking statements are only predictions and can be adversely affected if any of these risks occur. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Certain of our subsidiaries filed petitions to resolve asbestos litigation. The historical business operations of certain subsidiaries of our subsidiary, Coltec Industries Inc (“Coltec”), principally GST LLC and The Anchor Packing Company (“Anchor”), have resulted in a substantial volume of asbestos litigation in which plaintiffs have alleged personal injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos fibers. Those subsidiaries manufactured and/or sold industrial sealing products, predominately gaskets and packing products, which contained encapsulated asbestos fibers. Anchor is an inactive and insolvent indirect subsidiary of Coltec. There is no remaining insurance coverage available to Anchor and it has no assets. Our subsidiaries’ exposure to asbestos litigation and their relationships with insurance carriers has been actively managed through another Coltec subsidiary, Garrison Litigation Management Group, Ltd. (“Garrison”). On the Petition Date, GST LLC, Anchor and Garrison filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of North Carolina in Charlotte to address these claims. These subsidiaries have been deconsolidated from our financial statements since the Petition Date. The amount that will be necessary to fully and finally resolve the asbestos liabilities of these companies is uncertain. Several risks and uncertainties result from these filings that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Those risks and uncertainties include the following: • the value of the deconsolidated subsidiaries reflected in our financial statements; • the uncertainty of the number and per claim value of pending and potential future asbestos claims; • the financial viability of our subsidiaries’ insurance carriers and their reinsurance carriers, and our subsidiaries’ ability to collect on claims from them; • the potential for asbestos exposure to extend beyond the filed entities arising from corporate veil piercing efforts or other claims by asbestos plaintiffs; • the costs of the bankruptcy proceeding and the length of time necessary to resolve the case, either through settlement or various court proceedings. For a further discussion of the filings and our asbestos exposure, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview and Outlook,” “— Contingencies — Asbestos” and “— Contingencies — Subsidiary Bankruptcy,” and Notes 2 and 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this report. Our business and some of the markets we serve are cyclical and distressed market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. The markets in which we sell our products, particularly chemical companies, petroleum refineries, heavy-duty trucking, semiconductor manufacturing, capital equipment and the automotive industry, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. Prior downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent erosion of average selling prices in these markets resulting in negative effects on our net sales, gross margins and net income. The recent recession affected our results of operations. A prolonged and severe downward cycle in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents We face intense competition that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We encounter intense competition in almost all areas of our businesses. Customers for many of our products are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce inventories. To remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We also need to develop new products to continue to meet the needs and desires of our customers. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or maintain our competitive position. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Certain of our products may also experience transformation from unique branded products to undifferentiated price sensitive products. This product commoditization may be accelerated by low cost foreign competition. Changes in the replacement cycle of certain of our products, including because of improved product quality or improved maintenance, may affect aftermarket demand for such products. Initiatives designed to distinguish our products through superior service, continuous improvement, innovation, customer relationships, technology, new product acquisitions, bundling with key services, long-term contracts or market focus may not be effective. Pricing and other competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely to market our products, we may be unable to effectively market our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends largely upon our independent agents’ and distributors’ sales and service expertise and relationships with customers in our markets. Many of these agents have developed strong ties to existing and potential customers because of their detailed knowledge of our products. A loss of a significant number of these agents or distributors, or of a particular agent or distributor in a key market or with key customer relationships, could significantly inhibit our ability to effectively market our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increased costs for raw materials, the termination of existing supply agreements or disruptions of our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business. The prices for some of the raw materials we purchase increased in 2010. While we have been successful in passing along some or all of these higher costs, there can be no assurance we will be able to continue doing so without losing customers. Similarly, the loss of a key supplier or the unavailability of a key raw material could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have exposure to some contingent liabilities relating to discontinued operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any fiscal period. We have contingent liabilities related to discontinued operations of our predecessors, including environmental liabilities and liabilities for certain products and other matters. In some instances we have indemnified others against those liabilities, and in other instances we have received indemnities from third parties against those liabilities. Claims could arise relating to products or other matters related to our discontinued operations. Some of these claims could seek substantial monetary damages. For example, we could potentially be subject to the liabilities related to the firearms manufactured prior to March 1990 by Colt Firearms, a former operation of Coltec, and for electrical transformers manufactured prior to May 1994 by Central 10 Table of Contents Moloney, another former Coltec operation. Coltec has ongoing obligations with regard to workers compensation, retiree medical and other retiree benefit matters associated with discontinued operations in connection with Coltec’s periods of ownership of those operations. We have insurance, reserves, and funds held in trust to address these liabilities. However, if our insurance coverage is depleted, our reserves are not adequate, or the funds held in trust are insufficient, environmental and other liabilities relating to discontinued operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activities outside of the U.S., which subjects us to additional business risks that may cause our profitability to decline. Because we sell our products in a number of foreign countries, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2010, we derived approximately 48% of our revenues from sales of our products outside of the U.S. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks, including: • unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • adverse changes in foreign tax, legal and regulatory requirements; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • cultural norms and expectations that may sometimes be inconsistent with our Code of Conduct and our requirements about the manner in which our employees, agents and distributors conduct business; • differing labor regulations; • political and economic instability; and • acts of hostility, terror or war. Any of these factors, individually or together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities in countries outside the United States create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures and programs always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances. Violations of the 11 Table of Contents FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We intend to continue to pursue international growth opportunities, which could increase our exposure to risks associated with international sales and operations. As we expand our international operations, we may also encounter new risks that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local agents, distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to increase sales in these regions. Efforts to achieve growth through acquisitions, both domestic and international, involve numerous inherent challenges, such as properly evaluating acquisition opportunities, successfully integrating new businesses or product lines, retaining key employees, properly evaluating risks and other diligence matters, ensuring adequate capital availability and balancing other resource constraints. Acquisitions may not succeed as planned. Failure to properly manage these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights and knowledge relating to our products, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. We believe that proprietary products and technology are important to our success. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and know-how, our business and prospects could be negatively impacted. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality, non-compete and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Patents issued to third parties, whether before or after the issue date of our patents, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Questions as to whether our competitors’ products infringe our intellectual property rights or whether our products infringe our competitors’ intellectual property rights may be disputed. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable, limited or difficult to enforce in some jurisdictions, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share in those jurisdictions. Our competitors may capture market share from us by selling products that claim to mirror the capabilities of our products or technology. Without sufficient protection nationally and internationally for our intellectual property, our competitiveness worldwide could be impaired, which would negatively impact our growth and future revenue. As a result, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, which could involve certain risks and uncertainties. Since the beginning of 2010, we have completed six acquisitions. We expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. There are risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions, including: difficulties integrating acquired technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems; unrealized sales expectations from the acquired business; unrealized synergies and cost savings; unknown or underestimated liabilities; diversion of management attention from running our existing businesses and potential loss of key management employees of the acquired business. In addition, internal controls over financial reporting of acquired companies may not be up to required standards. Our integration activities may place substantial demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. 12 Table of Contents Our business could be materially adversely affected by numerous other risks, including rising healthcare costs, changes in environmental laws and unforeseen business interruptions. Our business may be negatively impacted by numerous other risks. For example, medical and healthcare costs may continue to increase. Initiatives to address these costs, such as consumer driven health plan packages, may not successfully reduce these expenses as needed. Failure to offer competitive employee benefits may result in our inability to recruit or maintain key employees. Other risks to our business include potential changes in environmental rules or regulations, which could negatively impact our manufacturing processes. Use of certain chemicals and other substances could become restricted or such changes may otherwise require us to incur additional costs which could reduce our profitability and impair our ability to offer competitively priced products. Additional risks to our business include global or local events which could significantly disrupt our operations. Terrorist attacks, natural disasters, political insurgencies, pandemics, information system failures and electrical grid disruptions and outages are some of the unforeseen risks that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. A relatively small number of shares traded in any one day could have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section and elsewhere in this report or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to significant selling and manufacturing costs. Small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter and the price of our common stock may fall. We may also incur charges to income to cover increases in the estimate of our subsidiaries’ future asbestos liability. Other factors that could affect quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to: • demand for our products; • the timing and execution of customer contracts; • the timing of sales of our products; • increases in manufacturing costs due to equipment or labor issues; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in applicable tax rates; • an impairment in the value of our investment in GST; • unanticipated delays or problems in introducing new products; 13 Table of Contents • announcements by competitors of new products, services or technological innovations; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, raw materials or supplies, product development or administration; • major changes in the level of economic activity in major regions of the world in which we do business; • costs related to possible future acquisitions or divestitures of technologies or businesses; • an increase in the number or magnitude of product liability claims; • our ability to expand our operations and the amount and timing of expenditures related to expansion of our operations, particularly outside the U.S.; and • economic assumptions and market factors used to determine post-retirement benefits and pension liabilities. Various provisions and laws could delay or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and provisions of North Carolina law could delay or prevent a change of control or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, among other things: • require a supermajority shareholder vote to approve any business combination transaction with an owner of 5% or more of our shares unless the transaction is recommended by disinterested directors; • limit the right of shareholders to remove directors and fill vacancies; • regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholders’ meetings; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval. Our shareholder rights plan also makes an acquisition of a controlling interest in EnPro in a transaction not approved by our board of directors more difficult. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of our convertible debentures. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a reasonable number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans, including shares to be issued upon the exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock or unit grants, and upon conversion of our convertible debentures. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the debentures and the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Absence of dividends could reduce our attractiveness to investors. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Moreover, our current senior secured credit facility restricts our ability to pay cash dividends on common stock if availability under the facility falls below $20 million. As a result, our common stock may be less attractive to certain investors than the stock of companies with a history of paying regular dividends. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt agreement imposes limitations on our operations, which could impede our ability to respond to market conditions, address unanticipated capital investments and/or pursue business opportunities. We have a $60 million senior secured revolving credit facility that imposes limitations on our operations, such as limitations on distributions, limitations on incurrence and repayment of indebtedness, and maintenance of a fixed charge coverage financial ratio if average monthly availability is less than $15 million. These limitations could impede our ability to respond to market conditions, address unanticipated capital investment needs and/or pursue business opportunities. We may not have sufficient cash to repurchase our convertible debentures at the option of the holder or upon a change of control or to pay the cash payable upon a conversion. Upon a conversion, we will be required to make a cash payment of up to $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of debentures converted. In addition, upon a change of control, subject to certain conditions, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase for cash all outstanding convertible debentures at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including liquidated damages, if any, up to but not including the date of repurchase. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to settle converted debentures or make repurchases of tendered debentures. Any credit facility in place at the time of a repurchase or conversion of the debentures may also limit our ability to use borrowings to pay any cash payable on a repurchase or conversion of the debentures and may prohibit us from making any cash payments on the repurchase or conversion of the debentures if a default or event of default has occurred under that facility without the consent of the lenders under that credit facility. Our current $60 million senior secured credit facility prohibits distributions from our subsidiaries to us to make payments of interest on the debentures if a default or event of default exists under the facility. Our senior secured credit facility also prohibits prepayments of the debentures or distributions from our subsidiaries to us to make principal payments or payments upon conversion of the debentures if a default or event of default exists under the facility or the amount of the borrowing base under the facility, less the amount of outstanding borrowings under the facility and letters of credit and reserves, is less than $20 million. Our failure to repurchase tendered debentures at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on a conversion of the debentures would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the change of control itself could lead to a default under the other existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the debentures or make cash payments upon conversion thereof. 15 Table of Contents Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to certain derivative transactions, such as foreign exchange contracts and call options (hedge and warrant transactions) with respect to our convertible debentures, with financial institutions to hedge against certain financial risks. In light of current economic uncertainty and potential for financial institution failures, we may be exposed to the risk that our counterparty in a derivative transaction may be unable to perform its obligations as a result of being placed in receivership or otherwise. In the event a counterparty to a material derivative transaction is unable to perform its obligations thereunder, we may experience losses material to our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 