ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks stated elsewhere in this annual report, set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe are material. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reputation could be harmed. You should also consider these risk factors when you read “forward-looking statements” elsewhere in this report. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “may,” “hope,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” or “continue,” the negative of those terms or other comparable terms. Those forward-looking statements are only predictions and can be adversely affected if any of these risks occur. Risks Related to Our Business Certain of our subsidiaries are defendants in asbestos litigation. The historical business operations of certain subsidiaries of our subsidiary, Coltec Industries Inc (“Coltec”), principally Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC and The Anchor Packing Company (“Anchor”), have resulted in a substantial volume of asbestos litigation in which plaintiffs have alleged personal injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos fibers. Those subsidiaries manufactured and/or sold industrial sealing products, predominately gaskets and packing products, that contained encapsulated asbestos fibers. Anchor is an inactive and insolvent indirect subsidiary of Coltec. There is no remaining insurance coverage available to Anchor and it has no assets. Our subsidiaries’ exposure to asbestos litigation and their relationships with insurance carriers are actively managed through another Coltec subsidiary, Garrison Litigation Management Group, Ltd. Several risks and uncertainties may result in potential liabilities to us in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Those risks and uncertainties include the following: • the potential for a large number of future asbestos claims that are not covered by insurance because insurance coverage is, or will be, depleted; • the uncertainty of the number and per claim value of pending and potential future asbestos claims; • the results of litigation and the success of our litigation and settlement strategies; 7 Table of Contents • the potential for large adverse judgments against us not covered by insurance and any surety/appeal bonds (and related cash collateral) required in connection with appeals; • an increase in litigation costs, fees and expenses that are not covered by insurance; • the financial viability of our subsidiaries’ insurance carriers and their reinsurance carriers, and our subsidiaries’ ability to collect on claims from them; • the timing of claims, payments and insurance recoveries, and limitations imposed on the amount that may be recovered from insurance in any year; • the unavailability of any insurance for claims alleging first exposure to asbestos after July 1, 1984; • the potential for asbestos exposure to extend beyond specific Coltec subsidiaries arising from corporate veil piercing efforts or other claims by asbestos plaintiffs; • bankruptcies of other defendants; and • the prospect for and impact of any federal legislation providing national asbestos litigation reform. When settlement payments exceed insurance recoveries from our subsidiaries’ carriers, our subsidiaries will be required to fund these obligations from available cash. This could adversely affect our ability to use cash for other purposes, including growth of our business, and adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, our estimated liability for claims is highly uncertain and is based on subjective assumptions. The actual liability could vary significantly from the estimate recorded in our financial statements. Because of the uncertainty as to the number and timing of potential future asbestos claims, as well as the amount that will have to be paid to settle or satisfy any such claims in the future (including significant bonds required by certain states while we appeal adverse verdicts), and the finite amount of insurance available for future payments, future asbestos claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For a further discussion of our asbestos exposure, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Contingencies – Asbestos.” Our business and some of the markets we serve are cyclical and distressed market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business. The markets in which we sell our products, particularly chemical companies, petroleum refineries, heavy-duty trucking, semiconductor manufacturing, capital equipment and the automotive industry, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns. Prior downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent erosion of average selling prices in these markets resulting in negative effects on our net sales, gross margins and net income. The current downward cycle has impacted our results of operations for our most recent quarterly periods. The current economic environment may affect our opportunities for organic growth and a continued downward cycle could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, a prolonged downward cycle may critically impair the continued viability of certain of our customers and 8 Table of Contents may adversely impact our accounts receivable with these customers. A prolonged and severe downward cycle in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face intense competition that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We encounter intense competition in almost all areas of our business. Customers for many of our products are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce inventories. To remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We also need to develop new products to continue to meet the needs and desires of our customers. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or maintain our competitive position. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. As a result, they may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. Pricing and other competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors upon whom we rely to market our products, we may be unable to effectively market our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Our marketing success in the U.S. and abroad depends largely upon our independent agents’ and distributors’ sales and service expertise and relationships with customers in our markets. Many of these agents have developed strong ties to existing and potential customers because of their detailed knowledge of our products. A loss of a significant number of these agents or distributors, or of a particular agent or distributor in a key market or with key customer relationships, could significantly inhibit our ability to effectively market our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increased costs for raw materials or the termination of existing supply agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. The prices for raw materials we purchase increased in 2008. While we have been successful in passing along a portion of these higher costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue doing so without losing customers. Similarly, the loss of a key supplier or the unavailability of a key raw material could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have exposure to some contingent liabilities relating to discontinued operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any fiscal period. We have some contingent liabilities related to discontinued operations of our predecessors, including environmental liabilities and liabilities for certain products and other matters. In some instances we have indemnified others against those liabilities, and in other instances we have received indemnities from third parties against those liabilities. Claims could arise relating to products or other matters related to our discontinued operations. Some of these claims could seek substantial monetary damages. Specifically, we may potentially be subject to the liabilities related to the firearms manufactured prior to 1990 by Colt Firearms, a former operation of Coltec, and for electrical transformers manufactured prior to 1994 by Central Moloney, another former Coltec operation. Coltec also has ongoing obligations with regard to workers compensation, retiree medical and other retiree benefit matters associated with discontinued operations that relate to Coltec’s periods of ownership of those operations. 9 Table of Contents We have insurance, reserves and funds held in trust to address these liabilities. However, if our insurance coverage is depleted, our reserves are not adequate or the funds held in trust are insufficient, environmental and other liabilities relating to discontinued operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct a significant amount of our sales activities outside of the U.S., which subjects us to additional business risks that may cause our profitability to decline. Because we sell our products in a number of foreign countries, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. In 2008, we derived approximately 48% of our revenues from sales of our products outside of the U.S. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks, including: • unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • adverse changes in foreign tax, legal and regulatory requirements; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • differing labor regulations; • political and economic instability; and • acts of hostility, terror or war. Any of these factors, individually or together, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We intend to continue to pursue international growth opportunities, which could increase our exposure to risks associated with international sales and operations. As we expand our international operations, we may also encounter new risks that could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local agents, distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to increase sales in these regions. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights and knowledge relating to our products, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted. We believe that proprietary products and technology are important to our success. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and know-how, our business and prospects could be negatively impacted. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, service marks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality, non-compete and nondisclosure agreements and other measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Patents issued to third parties, whether before or after the issue date of our patents, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Questions as to whether our competitors’ products infringe our intellectual property rights or whether our products infringe our competitors’ intellectual property rights may be disputed. In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable, limited or difficult to enforce in some jurisdictions, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share in those jurisdictions. 10 Table of Contents Our competitors may capture market share from us by selling products that claim to mirror the capabilities of our products or technology. Without sufficient protection nationally and internationally for our intellectual property, our competitiveness worldwide could be impaired, which would negatively impact our growth and future revenue. As a result, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. A relatively small number of shares traded in any one day could have a significant affect on the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section and elsewhere in this report or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. In particular, reports concerning asbestos litigation or asbestos reform could cause a significant increase or decrease in the market price of our common stock. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to significant selling and manufacturing costs. Small declines in revenues could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter and the price of our common stock may fall. We may also incur charges to income to cover increases in the estimate of our subsidiaries’ future asbestos liability. Other factors that could affect quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to: • demand for our products; • the timing and execution of customer contracts; • the timing of sales of our products; • payments related to asbestos litigation or annual costs related to asbestos litigation that are not covered by insurance; • the timing of receipt of insurance proceeds; • increases in manufacturing costs due to equipment or labor issues; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unanticipated delays or problems in introducing new products; • announcements by competitors of new products, services or technological innovations; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; 11 Table of Contents • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, raw materials or supplies, product development or administration; • major changes in the level of economic activity in North America, Europe, Asia and other major regions in which we do business; • costs related to possible future acquisitions or divestitures of technologies or businesses; • an increase in the number or magnitude of product liability claims; • our ability to expand our operations and the amount and timing of expenditures related to expansion of our operations, particularly outside the United States; and • economic assumptions and market factors used to determine post-retirement benefits and pension liabilities. Various provisions and laws could delay or prevent a change of control. The anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and provisions of North Carolina law could delay or prevent a change of control or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws, among other things, will: • require a supermajority shareholder vote to approve any business combination transaction with an owner of 5% or more of our shares unless the transaction is recommended by disinterested directors; • limit the right of shareholders to remove directors and fill vacancies; • regulate how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholders’ meetings; and • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval. Our shareholder rights plan will also make an acquisition of a controlling interest in EnPro in a transaction not approved by our board of directors more difficult. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of our convertible debentures. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans, including shares to be issued upon the exercise of stock options, and upon conversion of our convertible debentures. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the debentures and the market price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Absence of dividends could reduce our attractiveness to investors. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Moreover, our current senior secured credit facility restricts our ability to pay cash dividends on common stock if availability under the facility falls below $20 million. As a result, our common stock may be less attractive to certain investors than the stock of companies with a history of paying regular dividends. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt agreement imposes limitations on our operations, which could impede our ability to respond to market conditions, address unanticipated capital investments and/or pursue business opportunities. We have a $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility that imposes limitations on our operations, such as limitations on distributions, limitations on incurrence and repayment of indebtedness, and maintenance of a fixed charge coverage financial ratio. These limitations could impede our ability to respond to market conditions, address unanticipated capital investment needs and/or pursue business opportunities. We may not have sufficient cash to repurchase our convertible debentures at the option of the holder or upon a change of control or to pay the cash payable upon a conversion. Upon a change of control, subject to certain conditions, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase for cash all outstanding convertible debentures at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, including liquidated damages, if any, up to but not including the date of repurchase. Upon a conversion, we will be required to make a cash payment of up to $1,000 for each $1,000 in principal amount of debentures converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of tendered debentures or settlement of converted debentures. Any credit facility in place at the time of a repurchase or conversion of the debentures may also limit our ability to use borrowings to pay any cash payable on a repurchase or conversion of the debentures and may prohibit us from making any cash payments on the repurchase or conversion of the debentures if a default or event of default has occurred under that facility without the consent of the lenders under that credit facility. Our current $75 million senior secured credit facility prohibits distributions from our subsidiaries to us to make payments of interest on the debentures if a default or event of default exists under the facility. Our senior secured credit facility also prohibits prepayments of the debentures or distributions from our subsidiaries to us to make principal payments or payments upon conversion of the debentures if a default or event of default exists under the facility or the amount of the borrowing base under the facility, less the amount of outstanding borrowings under the facility and letters of credit and reserves, is less than $20 million. Our failure to repurchase tendered debentures at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on a conversion of the debentures would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the change of control itself could lead to a default under the other existing and future agreements governing our indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the debentures or make cash payments upon conversion thereof. Risks Related to the Current Global Financial Crisis The volatility and disruption of global credit markets and adverse changes arising from the current global financial crisis may negatively impact our ability to access financing and expose us to unexpected risks. 13 Table of Contents The current global financial and credit crisis exposes us to a variety of risks. We have historically funded our business with cash from operations and the proceeds from the issuance of our convertible debentures. We have a $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders as a backstop to our liquidity needs and there have been no borrowings under this facility to date. In light of the unprecedented disruption of global credit markets and the instability of financial institutions that until recently were of unquestioned strength, there is a risk that a borrowing request properly made under the credit facility would not be honored by one or more of our lenders. Under the terms of the credit facility, no lender is obligated to fund a portion of a borrowing request that is not funded by another lender. Accordingly, in such an instance actual borrowings under our credit facility may be insufficient to support our liquidity needs and we would be required to seek alternate sources of liquidity. In light of the current capital and credit market disruption and volatility, we cannot assure you that such alternate funding will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all. As of the date of this filing we have no reason to believe that a borrowing request, properly submitted by us, would not be honored by any of our lenders, all of whom have assured us of their continuing ability to fund our facility. In addition, we maintain deposit accounts with numerous financial institutions around the world in amounts that exceed applicable governmental deposit insurance levels. While we actively monitor our deposit relationships, we are subject to risk of loss in the event of the unanticipated failure of a financial institution in which we maintain deposits, which loss could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. We are party to certain derivative transactions, such as foreign exchange contracts and call options (hedge and warrant transactions) with respect to our convertible debentures, with financial institutions to hedge against certain financial risks. In light of current economic uncertainty and potential for financial institution failures, we may be exposed to the risk that our counterparty in a derivative transaction may be unable to perform its obligations as a result of being placed in receivership or otherwise. In the event that a counterparty to a material derivative transaction is unable to perform its obligations thereunder, we may experience material losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 