Item 1A. Risk Factors We believe these represent the material risks currently facing our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. You should also refer to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report, including our financial statements and related notes. Poor investment performance of assets managed by us could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we compete with many asset management firms on the basis of the investment strategies we offer, our success is dependent to a significant extent on the investment performance of the assets that we manage. Because our revenue is primarily generated from fees derived as a percentage of assets under management, poor performance tends to result in the loss or reduction of client accounts, which correspondingly decreases revenues. Underperformance relative to peer groups for our various investment strategies could adversely affect our results of operations, especially if such underperformance continues for a lengthy period of time. Some key employees are considered critical to our success, and our inability to attract and retain key employees could compromise our future success. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the services of our certain key employees, particularly Brian O. Casey, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Freeman, Chief Investment Officer, and Ragen Stienke, Senior Portfolio Manager. As with other asset management businesses, our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of these and other key officers, investment professionals, as well as marketing, client service and management personnel. There is substantial competition for skilled personnel and the loss of key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our revenues are dependent upon the performance of the securities markets and negative performance of the securities markets could reduce our revenues. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. Negative performance within the securities markets or short-term volatility within the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing assets, decreasing their rates of investment or shifting assets to cash or other asset classes or strategies that we do not manage, all of which could reduce our revenues. Because most of our revenues are based on the value of assets under management, a decline in the value of those assets would also adversely affect our revenues. In addition, in periods of slowing growth or declining revenues, profits and profit margins are adversely affected because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. In particular, a significant portion of our assets under management is invested in equity securities of companies with large market capitalizations. As a consequence, we are particularly susceptible to the volatility associated with changes in the market for large capitalization stocks. Due to this concentration, any change or reduction in such markets, including a shift of our clients’ and potential clients’ preference from investments in equity securities of large capitalization stocks to other equity or fixed income securities could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. This negative impact could occur due to the depreciation in value of our assets under management, the election by clients to select other firms to manage their assets or the election by clients to allocate assets away from asset classes that we manage. Any of these events would result in decreased assets under management and therefore reduced revenues and a decline in results of operations. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to realize benefits from the costs we have incurred and are continuing to incur to develop new investment strategies and otherwise broaden our capabilities, our growth opportunities may be adversely affected. We have incurred significant costs to develop new investment strategies, including SmallCap Value, AllCap Value, Income Opportunity, MidCap Value, LargeCap Enhanced (130/30), Global Strategic Diversification, an MLP portfolio and SMidCap Plus+, to launch new mutual funds under the Westwood FundsTM name and to upgrade our business infrastructure and we expect to continue to incur significant costs to develop and launch new investment strategies. Some costs associated with these improvements and new investment strategies will continue to be incurred in future periods and are relatively fixed. We may not realize the benefits of these investments and, if unable to do so, our results of operations and growth opportunities may be adversely affected. Due to the substantial cost and time required to introduce new investment strategies in our industry, we may not be able to successfully introduce new investment strategies in a timely manner, or at all. The development of new investment strategies, whether through acquisition or internal development, requires a substantial amount of time and significant financial resources, including expenses related to compensation, sales and marketing, information technology, legal counsel and other professional services. Our ability to market and sell a new investment strategy depends on our financial resources, the investment performance of the specific strategy, the timing of the offering and our marketing strategies. Once an investment strategy is developed, we must effectively market the strategy to existing and prospective clients. Our ability to sell new investment strategies to existing and prospective clients depends on our ability to meet or exceed the performance of our competitors who offer the same or similar strategy. We may not be able to manage the assets within a given investment strategy profitably. Moreover, it may take years before we are able to produce the level of results that will enable us to attract clients. If we are unable to realize the benefits of the costs and expenses incurred in developing new investment strategies, we may experience losses as a result of our management of these investment strategies, and our ability to introduce further new investment strategies and compete in our industry may be hampered. Our business is dependent on investment advisory, subadvisory and trust agreements that are subject to termination or non-renewal. As a result, we could lose any of our clients on very short notice. Substantially all of our revenues are derived pursuant to investment advisory, subadvisory and trust agreements with our clients. In general, either party may terminate these agreements upon 30 days’ notice. Any termination of, or failure to renew, a material number of these agreements could have a material adverse impact on us, particularly because many of our costs are relatively fixed. A small number of clients account for a substantial portion of our business. As such, the reduction or loss of business with any of these clients could have a significantly adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our four largest clients accounted for approximately 14% of fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. We are dependent to a significant degree on our ability to maintain existing relationships with these clients. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining these existing client relationships, securing additional clients or achieving the superior investment performance necessary to earn performance-based advisory fees. Any failure by us to retain one or more of these large clients or establish profitable relationships with additional clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competitive fee pressures could reduce revenues and profit margins. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent we have to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and client service rather than on the level of our investment management fees relative to our competitors. In recent years there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Performance fees could have a significant effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have performance fee agreements with a few clients, which pay us a fee if we outperform a specified index over predetermined periods of time. We may not be able to outperform such indexes and the failure to do so would cause us to earn none or only part of those potential revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues from performance-based fees could fluctuate significantly from one measurement period to the next, depending on how we perform relative to the indexes specified in these agreements. For example, we earned a performance fee in 2011, but did not earn performance fees in 2009 or 2010. Any event that negatively affects the asset management industry in general could have a material adverse effect on us. Any event affecting the asset management industry that results in a general decrease in assets under management or a significant general decline in the number of advisory clients or accounts could negatively impact our revenues. Our future growth and success depends in part upon the growth of the asset management industry. Our business is subject to extensive regulation with attendant costs of compliance and serious consequences for violations. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various laws and regulations including the Investment Advisers Act, the Investment Company Act, and anti-money laundering laws. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from operating our business as well as the powers to place us under conservatorship or closure in the event we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Violations of such laws or regulations could subject us or our employees to disciplinary proceedings and civil or criminal liability, including revocation of licenses, censures, fines or temporary suspensions, permanent barring from the conduct of business, conservatorship, or closure. Any such proceeding or liability could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Due to the extensive regulations and laws to which we are subject, our management is required to devote substantial time and effort to legal and regulatory compliance issues. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. See “Item 1. Business — Regulation.” Misuse of assets and information in the possession of our investment professionals and employees could result in costly litigation and liability for us and our clients. Our investment professionals handle significant amounts of assets along with financial and personal information for our clients. We have implemented a system of controls to minimize the risk of a fraudulent taking or misuse of assets and information, however our controls may not be sufficiently adequate to prevent such fraudulent actions by our portfolio managers or employees. If our controls are ineffective, we could be subject to costly litigation, which could consume financial resources, distract management and result in regulatory sanctions. Such fraudulent actions could also adversely affect clients, causing them to seek redress. Acquisitions involve inherent risks that could compromise the success of the combined business and dilute the holdings of current stockholders. As part of our long-term business strategy, we may pursue corporate development transactions including the acquisition of asset management firms, mutual funds, private wealth firms, investment professionals or teams. See “Item 1. Business — Growth Strategy.” If we are incorrect when assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of such transactions, or if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses or individuals, the success of the combined business could be compromised. Any business acquisitions are subject to the risks commonly associated with such transactions including, among others, potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and to acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, potential disruptions to the business of the combined company and potential diversion of management’s time 12 Table of Contents and attention, the impairment of relationships with and the possible loss of key employees and clients as a result of changes in management, potential litigation or other legal risks, potential write-downs related to goodwill impairment in connection with acquisitions, and dilution to the stockholders of the combined company if the acquisition is made for stock of the combined company. In addition, investment strategies, technologies or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively assimilated into our business or may have a negative effect on the combined company’s revenues or earnings. The combined company may also incur significant expense to complete acquisitions and support acquired investment strategies and businesses. Further, any such acquisitions may be funded with cash, debt or equity, which could have the effect of diluting the holdings or limiting the rights of stockholders. Finally, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms. Our acquisitions were forecasted to add revenues, expenses and earnings to our business. The failure to realize these revenues and earnings could adversely impact our results of operations. We have made two business acquisitions in the last three years. These acquisitions may not yield the benefits that we forecasted due to a variety of factors, including our failure to retain the clients of the businesses we acquired. If these acquisitions do not yield expected benefits, our revenues and results of operations could be negatively impacted and we could be required to record an impairment against earnings for the intangible assets and goodwill acquired in these transactions. Our business involves risks of being engaged in litigation and liability that could increase our expenses and reduce our results of operations Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. We could be named as defendants or co-defendants in lawsuits or could be involved in disputes that involve the threat of lawsuits seeking substantial damages. As an SEC-registered adviser, mutual fund adviser and publicly traded entity, we are subject to governmental and self-regulatory organization examinations, investigations and proceedings. Similarly, the investment strategies that we manage could be subject to actual and threatened lawsuits and governmental and self-regulatory organization investigations and proceedings, any of which could harm the investment returns or reputation of the applicable fund or result in our being liable for any resulting damages. There has been an increased incidence of litigation and regulatory investigations in the asset management industry in recent years, including customer claims as well as class action suits seeking substantial damages. Various factors may hinder the declaration and payment of dividends. We have historically paid a quarterly dividend. However, payment of future dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and various factors may prevent us from paying dividends. Such factors include our financial position, capital requirements and liquidity, the existence of a stock repurchase program, state corporate and banking law restrictions, results of operations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. In addition, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the dividends and income we receive from our subsidiaries. Currently, our primary source of cash consists of dividends from Westwood Management or Westwood Trust. The payment of dividends by Westwood Management or Westwood Trust is subject to the discretion of their Boards of Directors and compliance with applicable laws, including, in particular, the provisions of the Texas Finance Code applicable to Westwood Trust. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our business is vulnerable to systems failures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any delays or inaccuracies in securities pricing information or information processing could give rise to claims against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors for securities pricing information and updates from certain software. We may suffer a systems failure or interruption, whether caused by an earthquake, fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, unauthorized access, act of God, act of war or otherwise, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may be inadequate to eliminate the risk of extended interruptions in operations. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to fund future capital requirements on favorable terms, if at all. We cannot be certain that financing to fund our working capital or other cash requirements, if needed, will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our capital requirements may vary greatly from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, capital expenditures, fluctuations in our operating results and financing activities. If future financing becomes necessary, we may or may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, any future equity financings could dilute the relative percentage ownership of then existing common stockholders and any future debt financings could involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our brand and operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and even systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. We cannot be certain that the measures we take to evaluate and improve our internal controls will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may prevent or deter another group from paying a premium over the market price to our stockholders to acquire our stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions that require a vote of two-thirds of the shares of stock entitled to vote to remove directors for cause, establish that stockholders cannot act by written consent, and that authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without shareholder approval, blank check preferred stock. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to business combinations. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a merger, consolidation, tender offer or other business combination or change of control involving us that could include a premium over the market price of our common stock that some or a majority of our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are a holding company and are dependent on the operations and funds of our subsidiaries. We are a holding company, with no revenue generating operations and no assets other than our ownership interests in Westwood Management and Westwood Trust. Accordingly, we are dependent on the cash flow generated by these operating subsidiaries and must rely on dividends or other intercompany transfers from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations. 