Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below contain forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY ON WHICH TO EVALUATE OUR POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE SUCCESS. We completed the merger of Netintact on August 18, 2006 and Netintact PTY on September 29, 2006. The products we sell are exclusively from the Netintact. While we have the experience of Netintact operations on a stand alone basis, we have had limited operating history on a combined basis upon which we can evaluate our business and prospects. We have yet to develop sufficient experience regarding actual revenues to be achieved from our combined operations. We have only recently launched many of the products and services on a worldwide basis. Therefore, investors should consider the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. - 8 - WE EXPECT LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. For the fiscal years ending December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006 we had losses from operations of $13.6 million, $7.7 million and $6.7 million, respectively. We will continue to incur losses from operations for the foreseeable future. These losses will result primarily from costs related to investment in sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. Our management believes these expenditures are necessary to build and maintain hardware and software technology and to further penetrate the markets for our products. If our revenue growth is slower than anticipated or our operating expenses exceed expectations, our losses will be greater. We may never achieve profitability. WE EXPECT TO NEED TO RAISE FURTHER CAPITAL. Based on current reserves and anticipated cash flow from operations, our working capital may not be sufficient to meet the needs of our business through the end of 2008. However a number of factors including lower than anticipated revenues, higher than expected cost of goods sold or expenses, or the inability of our customers to pay for the goods and services ordered may negatively impact our expectations. As a result, we anticipate raising additional capital and/or obtain debt financing during 2008. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of unanticipated growth or acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, we may be required to cancel product development programs and/or lay-off employees. Such inability to raise additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE DILUTED IN THE FUTURE. Our stockholders have authorized us to issue up to 130,000,000 shares of common stock and 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to the extent of such authorization, our Board of Directors will have the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock and/or preferred stock in the future for such consideration as our Board of Directors may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock and/or preferred stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our common stock held by existing stockholders. At December 31, 2007 there were 76,069,233, shares of common stock outstanding, warrants to purchase 7,714,407 shares of common stock, stock options to purchase 6,675,163 shares of common stock. In addition, there are ungranted stock options to purchase 714,357 shares of common stock pursuant to our stock option plans, and 300,000 shares committed but not yet issued for services rendered. On July 16, 2007, the company issued 3,999,750 restricted common shares to investors who participated in a private placement sale of stock and warrants to purchase 199,988 shares of restricted common stock were issued as compensation to placement agents. On July 26, 2007, 247,500 restricted common shares were issued for investor relations services to be performed from June 1, 2007 through August 31, 2008. Any future issuances of our common stock would dilute the relative ownership interest of our current stockholders, and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. - 9 - COMPETITION FOR EXPERIENCED PERSONNEL IS INTENSE AND OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD SIGNIFICANTLY INTERRUPT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate high caliber key personnel. We plan to expand in all areas and will require experienced personnel to augment our current staff. We expect to be recruiting experienced professionals in such areas as software and hardware development, sales, technical support, product marketing and management. We currently plan to expand our indirect channel partner program and we need to attract qualified business partners to broaden these sales channels. Economic conditions may result in significant competition for qualified personnel and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our business will suffer if it encounters delays in hiring these additional personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our business. We believe we will need to attract, retain and motivate talented management and other highly skilled employees to be successful. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. We currently do not have key person insurance in place. If we lose one of the key officers, we must attract, hire, and retain an equally competent person to take their place. There is no assurance that we would be able to find such an employee in a timely fashion. If we fail to recruit an equally qualified replacement or incur a significant delay, our business plans may slow down or stop. We could fail to implement our strategy or lose sales and marketing and development momentum. We have recently announced our plans to reorganize our sales and marketing efforts. These plans included a significant reduction in force in these areas and the announcement of two senior sales management personnel. There can be no assurance that these personnel additions or our reorganization efforts will have the positive effect on our business operations as planned by management WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY WITH OTHER COMPANIES IN OUR MARKET SECTOR WHO ARE SUBSTANTIALLY LARGER AND MORE ESTABLISHED AND HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER RESOURCES. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive sector of the networking technology market. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future from a number of different sources. Increased competition could result in reduced prices and gross margins for our products and could require increased spending by us on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support, any of which could have a negative financial impact on our business. We compete with Cisco Systems/P-Cube, Allot, Ellocoya, and Sandvine, as well as other companies which sell products incorporating competing technologies. In addition, our products and technology compete for information technology budget allocations with products that offer monitoring capabilities, such as probes and related software. Lastly, we face indirect competition from companies that offer service providers increased bandwidth and infrastructure upgrades that increase the capacity of their networks, which may lessen or delay the need for bandwidth management solutions. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources and more established distribution channels. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. We have encountered, and expect to encounter, customers who are extremely confident in and committed to the product offerings of our competitors. Furthermore, some of our competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to rapidly gain market share by addressing the needs of our prospective customers. These competitors may enter our existing or future markets with solutions that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. Given the market opportunity in the bandwidth management solutions market, we also expect that other companies may enter our market with alternative products and technologies, which could reduce the sales or market acceptance of our products and services, perpetuate intense price competition or make our products obsolete. If any technology that is competing with ours is or becomes more reliable, higher performing, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services would decrease, which would harm our business. OUR PACKETLOGIC FAMILY OF PRODUCTS IS CURRENTLY OUR ONLY SUITE OF PRODUCTS, AND ALL OF OUR CURRENT REVENUES AND A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR FUTURE GROWTH DEPENDS ON ITS COMMERCIAL SUCCESS. All of our current revenues and a significant portion of our future growth depend on the commercial success of our PacketLogic family of products. If customers do not widely adopt, purchase and successfully deploy our PacketLogic products, our revenues will not grow, and our business will be harmed significantly. - 10 - THE NETWORK EQUIPMENT MARKET IS SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL PROGRESS AND TO COMPETE WE MUST CONTINUALLY INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE BROAD MARKET ACCEPTANCE. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. If we do not regularly introduce new products in this dynamic environment, our product lines will become obsolete. Developments in routers and routing software could also significantly reduce demand for our products. Alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the technology on which we have based our product architecture. We cannot assure you that our technological approach will achieve broad market acceptance or that other technology or devices will not supplant our products and technology. IF THE BANDWIDTH MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS MARKET FAILS TO GROW, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The market for bandwidth management solutions is in an early stage of development and our success is not guaranteed. Therefore, we cannot accurately predict the future size of the market, the products needed to address the market, the optimal distribution strategy, or the competitive environment that will develop. In order for us to be successful, our potential customers must recognize the value of more sophisticated bandwidth management solutions, decide to invest in the management of their networks and the performance of important business software applications and, in particular, adopt our bandwidth management solutions. The growth of the bandwidth management solutions market also depends upon a number of factors, including the availability of inexpensive bandwidth, especially in international markets, and the growth of wide area networks. The failure of the market to rapidly grow would adversely affect our sales and sales prospects leading to sustained financial losses. FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE WILL DEPEND ON THE INTRODUCTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF NEW PRODUCTS. We believe our current products address the needs of small to medium sized service providers. Our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address additional market requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. In the past, we have experienced delays in product development and such delays may occur in the future. When we announce new products or product enhancements that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing products, customers may defer purchasing our existing products. These actions could harm our operating results by unexpectedly decreasing sales and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR GROWTH, WE MAY EXPERIENCE OPERATING INEFFICIENCIES AND HAVE DIFFICULTY MEETING DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. We seek to regulate our growth due to capital requirements. If our customer base and market grow rapidly, we would need to expand to meet this demand. This expansion could place a significant strain on our management, products and support operations, sales and marketing personnel and other resources, which could harm our business. In the future, we may experience difficulties meeting the demand for our products and services. The installation and use of our products requires training. If we are unable to provide training and support for our products, the implementation process will be longer and customer satisfaction may be lower. In addition, our management team may not be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully exploit the market for our products and services. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support the anticipated growth in our operations. The failure to meet the challenges presented by rapid customer and market expansion would cause us to miss sales opportunities and otherwise have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. We may not be able to install management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. WE HAVE LIMITED ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND DEFEND AGAINST CLAIMS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE. For our primary line of PacketLogic products, we rely on trade secret law, contractual rights and trademark law to protect our intellectual property rights and for the intellectual property we developed prior to the acquisition of Netintact, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights or that other parties will not independently develop similar or competing products that do not infringe on our patents. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and control access to and distribution of the software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise misappropriate or use our products or technology. - 11 - In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. Litigation resulting from claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE EXPECT OUR PRODUCTION VOLUME TO INCREASE, CAUSING DEPENDENCE ON CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our capacity for material purchases, production, test and quality control functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our revenue growth and adversely affect our competitive position and reputation, and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders under agreements with our customers. If we rely on independent contractors to manufacture our products, we will be reliant on their performance to meet business demand. We may experience delays in product shipments from contract manufacturers. Contract manufacturer performance problems may arise in the future, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of products, or the interruption or discontinuance of operations of a manufacturer, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We do not know whether we will effectively manage our contract manufacturers or that these manufacturers will meet our future requirements for timely delivery of products of sufficient quality and quantity. We also intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require that we rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating our efforts with those of our suppliers and contract manufacturers. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products or a reduction in the general capacity of the contract manufacturing industry may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As part of our cost-reduction efforts, we will need to realize lower per unit product costs from our contract manufacturers by means of volume efficiencies and the utilization of manufacturing sites in lower-cost geographies. However, we cannot be certain when or if such price reductions will occur. The failure to obtain such price reductions would adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN UNDETECTED SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE ERRORS, WE COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT UNEXPECTED EXPENSES AND LOSE SALES. Network products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are first released to the marketplace. In the past, we have experienced such errors in connection with new products and product upgrades. We expect that such errors or component failures will be found from time to time in the future in new or existing products, including the components incorporated therein, after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by causing us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. Further, if our product is not accepted by customers due to defects, and such returns exceed the amount we accrued for defect returns based on our historical experience, our operating results would be adversely affected. - 12 - Our products must successfully interface with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a computer or communications network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. WE EXPECT THE AVERAGE SELLING PRICES OF OUR PRODUCTS TO DECREASE, WHICH MAY REDUCE GROSS MARGIN OR REVENUE. The network equipment industry has traditionally experienced a rapid erosion of average selling prices due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, promotional pricing, technological progress and a slowdown in the economy that has resulted in excess inventory and lower prices as companies attempt to liquidate this inventory. We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, excess inventories, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by us or our competitors. We may experience substantial decreases in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS MAY NOT HAVE THE RESOURCES TO PAY FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Some of our customers may experience serious cash flow problems and, as a result, find it increasingly difficult to finance their operations. If some of these customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or securing alternate financing arrangements, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment for, the amounts that they owe us. Furthermore, they may not order as many products from us as forecast, or cancel orders entirely. The inability of some of our potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our cash flow, the timing of our revenue recognition and the amount of revenue, which may cause our stock price to decline. OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT SALES OCCURRING OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE UNITED STATES DOLLAR AGAINST FOREIGN CURRENCIES. A significant percentage of PacketLogic sales are generated outside of the United States. PacketLogic sales and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies could affect our operating results as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities as foreign assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. Dollars for presentation in our financial statements, as well as our net sales, cost of goods sold, and operating margins. The primary foreign currencies in which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the European Union Euro, the Swedish Krona and the Australian Dollar. As we expand, we could be exposed to exchange rate fluctuation in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and U.S. Dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge any foreign currencies LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS, HIGHER INSURANCE COSTS AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS ARE LIKELY TO IMPACT OUR FUTURE FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Recent regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and future accounting pronouncements and regulatory changes have and will continue to have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. These changes and proposed legislative initiatives are likely to affect our general and administrative costs. In addition, insurance costs, including health and workers' compensation insurance premiums, have been increasing on a historical basis and are likely to continue to increase in the future. Recent and future pronouncements associated with expensing executive compensation and employee stock option may also impact operating results. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. OUR PRODUCTS MUST COMPLY WITH EVOLVING INDUSTRY STANDARDS AND COMPLEX GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS OR ELSE OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE WIDELY ACCEPTED, WHICH MAY PREVENT US FROM GROWING OUR NET REVENUE OR ACHIEVING PROFITABILITY. - 13 - The market for network equipment products is characterized by the need to support new standards as different standards emerge, evolve and achieve acceptance. We will not be competitive unless we continually introduce new products and product enhancements that meet these emerging standards. In the past, we have introduced new products that were not compatible with certain technological standards, and in the future we may not be able to effectively address the compatibility and interoperability issues that arise as a result of technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our products must comply with various United States federal government requirements and regulations and standards defined by agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission, in addition to standards established by governmental authorities in various foreign countries and recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. Some of our product offerings are used to support compliance of our customers with CALEA. Accordingly we must comply with the changing requirements of CALEA. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards or if we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our net revenue or achieving profitability. FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY EXPAND OUR SALES AND SUPPORT TEAMS OR EDUCATE THEM ABOUT TECHNOLOGIES AND OUR PRODUCT FAMILIES MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The sale of our products and services requires a concerted effort that is frequently targeted at several levels within a prospective customer's organization. We may not be able to increase net revenue unless we expand our sales and support teams in order to address all of the customer requirements necessary to sell our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate our employees into the company or to educate current and future employees in regard to rapidly evolving technologies and our product families. Failure to do so may hurt our revenue growth and operating results. WE MUST CONTINUE TO DEVELOP AND INCREASE THE PRODUCTIVITY OF OUR INDIRECT DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS TO INCREASE NET REVENUE AND IMPROVE OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our distribution strategy focuses primarily on developing and increasing the productivity of our indirect distribution channels through resellers and distributors. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant resellers, or if these resellers are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Many of our resellers also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into additional reseller and/or distribution agreements or that we will be able to successfully manage our product sales channels. Our failure to do any of these could limit our ability to grow or sustain revenue. In addition, our operating results will likely fluctuate significantly depending on the timing and amount of orders from our resellers. We cannot assure you that our resellers and/or distributors will continue to market or sell our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. Such failure would negatively affect revenue and profitability. OUR HEADQUARTERS ARE LOCATED IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA WHERE DISASTERS MAY OCCUR THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our corporate headquarters are located in Silicon Valley in Northern California. Historically, this region has been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to us and our manufacturers' property. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war targeted at the United States, and specifically Silicon Valley, could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We currently have significant redundant, capacity in Sweden in the event of a natural disaster or catastrophic event in Silicon Valley. In the event of such an occurrence, our business could nonetheless suffer. The operations in Sweden are subject to disruption by extreme winter weather. ACQUISITIONS MAY DISRUPT OR OTHERWISE HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products, services or technologies on an opportunistic basis when we believe they will assist us in carrying out our business strategy. Growth through acquisitions has been a successful strategy used by other network control and management technology companies. In 2006, we completed mergers with the Netintact entities. These and any future acquisitions could distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, Procera had to issue equity securities to pay for these acquisitions which had a dilutive effect on its existing stockholders and it may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, the issuance of which could be dilutive to Procera’s existing stockholders. - 14 - ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND OUR RIGHT TO ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK COULD MAKE A THIRD-PARTY ACQUISITION OF PROCERA DIFFICULT. We are a Nevada corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Nevada law and our charter documents could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. Our articles of incorporation provide that our Board of Directors may issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. All of the foregoing could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. OUR COMMON STOCK PRICE IS LIKELY TO BE HIGHLY VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile as is the stock market in general, and the market for small cap and micro cap technology companies in particular, has been highly volatile. Investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to volatility. We cannot assure you that our stock will trade at the same levels of other stocks in our industry or that industry stocks, in general, will sustain their current market prices. Factors that could cause such volatility may include, among other things: - actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; - announcements of technological innovations; - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; - conditions or trends in the network control and management industry; - changes in the market valuations of other such industry related companies; and - the acceptance of market makers and institutional investors of our stock. OUR COMMON STOCK IS CONSIDERED "A PENNY STOCK" AND MAY BE DIFFICULT TO SELL. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. As the market price of our common stock has been less than $5.00 per share during this quarter, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE BY OUR CURRENT STOCKHOLDERS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or otherwise could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital at that time through the sale of our securities. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock after the date of this report could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2007, we had 76,069,233 shares of common stock outstanding. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. - 15 - 