Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock, which is listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, has from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future, and you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the purchase price paid by you. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: · a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; · changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; · general conditions in our customers' industries; and · general conditions in the securities markets. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Operating losses The Company experienced a substantial operating loss during 2007 and has a cumulative retained deficit. Although the Company was profitable in 2008, the Company may incur additional losses and continuing negative operating cash flows from operations in the future, and may never achieve sustained profitability. Its success will depend in large part upon its ability to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability, and to maintain existing customer relationships and to develop new products. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $901,094 and $972,947, respectively. In addition, the Company experienced negative cash flows from operations for the period ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 of $882,141 and $260,494, respectively. Uncertainty of Future Financial Result The Company's quarterly revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated depending on the timing of customer demands. Accordingly, the Company’s operating results in a particular period maybe difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors and may result in a significant decline in the Company’s share price. Factors which may cause the Company’s financial results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter include: the fact that each individual order or contract can represent substantial revenue; the size, timing and shipment of individual orders; changes in pricing by the Company or its competitors; discount levels; foreign currency exchange rates; the mix of products sold; the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new product enhancements by the Company and its competitors; and, general economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, a quarter-to-quarter comparison of the Company’s results of operations is not necessarily meaningful. The results of one quarter should not be relied upon by investors as an indication of the Company’s future performance. 11 Limited Financial Resources and Need for Additional Financing The Company has limited financial resources and may require additional equity or debt financing in the future for operating and growth purposes. In addition, the Company has outstanding 1.200,000 shares of redeemable common stock, which becomes exercisable at a price of $1.25 per share on August 1, 2009. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all, the additional financing required to fund this obligation and also compete successfully. Failure to obtain such financing could result in the delay or abandonment of some or all of the Company’s business plans. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these public company requirements has increased our costs and we expect that it will continue to increase our costs and make some activities more time consuming. For example, we are considering creating a new internal Disclosures and Controls Committee and adopting new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will continue to incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our Annual Report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statement as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Frost, PLLC, (“Frost”), will be required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if Frost cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. We are dependent on our principal executive officer and the loss of his service could adversely affect us. We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our principal executive officer, Paul Feldman, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of our principal executive officer could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our continued growth is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain additional skilled management personnel. We are controlled by one shareholder, who may determine the outcome of all elections. Approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock is beneficially owned or controlled by the Raymond James Financial, Inc. As a result, this shareholder is able to determine the outcome of elections of our directors and thereby control the management of our business. The industry in which we operate is cyclical, and downturns in our industry may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has been derived from the sale of our products to the U.S. military, law enforcement agencies, and security and corrections personnel. The core industries in which our products are used are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have historically experienced severe downturns. Although we are currently in an upturn of demand for our products, a downturn in our industry could occur at any time. Deterioration in any of the cyclical industries we serve would harm our business and operating results because our customers would not likely have the resources necessary to purchase our products. 12 Our international sales operations are subject to uncertainties that could harm our business. We believe that revenue from the sale of our products outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our international sales operations are subject to numerous risks, including: · difficulty enforcing agreements through some foreign legal systems; · general economic and political conditions in the countries where we sell our products may have an adverse effect on our sales in those countries; · foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that could directly or indirectly harm our business and growth strategy; and · it may be difficult to enforce intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. The occurrence of any one of the above risks could harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to introduce enhancements to our existing products or to keep abreast of technological changes in our markets, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Although technologies in our products are well established, we believe our future success depends in part on our ability to enhance our existing products and develop new products in order to continue to meet customer demands. Our failure to introduce new or enhanced products on a timely and cost-competitive basis, or the development of processes that make our existing technologies or products obsolete could harm our business and results of operations. Our business is not highly competitive. But if we are unable to successfully implement our business strategy, we risk losing market share to current and future competitors. Some of our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or manufacturing resources. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in customer demands. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our customers. If we cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business will be harmed. If we are unable to make necessary capital investments or respond to pricing pressures, our business may be harmed. In order to remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in research and development, manufacturing, customer service and support, and marketing. From time to time we also have to adjust the prices of our products to remain competitive. We may not have available sufficient financial or other resources to continue to make investments necessary to maintain our competitive position. 13 If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we were to infringe the intellectual property of third parties, we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and confidentiality provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer. We may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if we were to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer. Furthermore, other companies may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate or reverse engineer our technologies or design around our patents. In some instances, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of our management, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain products or require us to redesign certain products, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. A decrease in supply or increase in cost of the materials used in our products could harm our profitability. Any restrictions on the supply or the increase in the cost of the materials used by us in manufacturing our products could significantly reduce our profit margins which could harm our results of operations. Any efforts we may engage in to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of materials by entering into long-term purchase agreements, by implementing productivity improvements or by passing cost increases on to our customers may not be successful. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of the materials used in the manufacture of our products, which in many instances are supplied by a limited number of sources. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the current agreements governing our indebtedness do not fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt is added, the related risks that we face could intensify. Our ownership changes for U.S. federal income tax purposes will cause utilization of our pre-change tax loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to be substantially delayed, which could increase income tax expense and decrease available cash in future years. The change in our ownership on January 15, 2008 triggered an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a consequence of the ownership change, the timing of our utilization of pre-change U.S. tax loss carryforwards and other tax attributes will be limited in the future. The amount of the annual limitation is expected to be approximately $660,000. The limitation has the potential to increase tax expense and increase the amounts payable for income taxes in future years and thereby limit the amount of cash available to service our indebtedness and for use in our operations. 14 Potential Defects in Products The Company’s products are highly complex and, from time to time, may contain design defects that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors, failures or faults may be found in the Company’s products after shipment to customers. If errors are discovered, the Company may not be able to correct such errors in a timely manner or at all. The occurrence of errors and product failures could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, lost revenue, and the loss of, or delay in achieving, market acceptance of the Company’s products, and correcting such errors and failures in the Company’s products could require significant expenditures by the Company. The sale and support of such products may entail the risk of claims based on damage to such equipment. In addition, the failure of the Company’s products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to claims. The Company’s insurance may not cover or its coverage may be insufficient to cover any such claims successfully asserted against the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 