Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Report and the Annual Report to Stockholders that are not purely historical facts, including statements about our expected future financial position, results of operations or cash flows, as well as other statements including words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “should,” “could,” “goal,” “target,” “designed,” “on track,” “comfortable with,” “optimistic” and other similar expressions, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Actual results and the timing of some events could differ materially from those projected in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, those set forth below and elsewhere in this Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, for no assurances can be given with respect to any forward-looking statements. In addition to the other information in this Report, the following factors, which may affect our current position and future prospects, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and an investment in our common stock. Poor investment performance of the assets managed by us could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we compete with many other asset management firms on the basis of asset classes offered and the investment performance of those asset classes, our success is dependent to a significant extent on the investment performance of the assets that we manage. Underperformance relative to peer groups for our various asset classes could adversely affect our results of operations, especially if such underperformance is sustained for a lengthy period of time. Strong performance stimulates new client accounts, which results in higher revenues for us. Conversely, poor performance tends to result in the loss or reduction of client accounts, with corresponding decreases in revenues. If we are unable to capitalize on the costs we have recently incurred and are continuing to incur to develop some new asset classes and otherwise broaden Westwood’s capabilities, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have incurred significant costs over the last several years to develop some new asset classes, including SMidCap Value, SmallCap Value and Income Opportunity, to launch two new mutual funds, the WHG SMidCap Fund and the WHG Income Opportunity Fund, and also to upgrade our business infrastructure. Some of the costs associated with these improvements will continue to be incurred in future periods and are relatively fixed. While we believe that these investments enhance our future business prospects, no assurance can be given that we will be able to capitalize on these investments and, in the event we are not able to do so, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some members of our management are critical to our success, and our inability to attract and retain key employees could compromise our future success. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the services of our executive officers, particularly Susan M. Byrne, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Investment Officer, and Brian O. Casey, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key employees, including Ms. Byrne or Mr. Casey. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. As with other asset management businesses, our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain officers, investment professionals and other key marketing, client service and management personnel. There is substantial competition for these types of skilled personnel. Some executive officers have substantial influence over our investment policies. Susan M. Byrne, our Chief Investment Officer, establishes and implements policy with respect to our investment advisory activity. Ms. Byrne and Mr. Casey decide on any changes in management philosophy, style or approach with respect to our investment advisory policies. 9 Table of Contents Negative performance of the securities markets could reduce our revenues. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. Negative performance in the securities markets or certain segments of those markets or short-term volatility in the securities markets or segments thereof could result in investors withdrawing assets from the markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which could reduce our revenues. Because most of our revenues are based on the value of assets under management, a decline in the value of those assets would also adversely affect our revenues. In addition, in periods of slowing growth or declining revenues, profits and profit margins are adversely affected because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. In particular, more than two-thirds of our assets under management are invested in equity securities of companies with a large market capitalization. As a consequence, we are particularly susceptible to the volatility associated with changes in the market for large capitalization stocks. Due to this concentration, any change or reduction in such markets, including a shift of Westwood clients’ and potential clients’ preference from investments in equity securities of large capitalization stocks to other equity or fixed income securities could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. This negative impact could occur due to the depreciation in value of our assets under management and/or the election by clients to select other firms to manage their assets, either of which events would result in decreased assets under management and therefore reduced revenues and a decline in results of operations. Our business is dependent on investment advisory, subadvisory and trust agreements that are subject to termination or non-renewal; therefore, we could lose any of our clients on very short notice. Substantially all of our revenues are derived pursuant to investment advisory, subadvisory and trust agreements with our clients. In general, either party may terminate these agreements upon 30-days notice. Any termination of or failure to renew these agreements could have a material adverse impact on us, particularly because many of our costs are relatively fixed. A small number of clients account for a substantial portion of our business. As such, the reduction or loss of business with any of these clients could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our largest three clients accounted for 18.8% of total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, and we are therefore dependent to a significant degree on our ability to maintain our existing relationships with these clients. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our existing client relationships or in securing additional clients. Any failure by us to retain one or more of our large clients or establish profitable relationships with additional clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any event that negatively affects the asset management industry could have a material adverse effect on us. Any event affecting the asset management industry that results in a general decrease in assets under management or a significant general decline in the number of advisory clients or accounts could negatively impact our revenues. Our future growth and success depends in part upon the growth of the asset management industry. Due to the substantial cost and time required to introduce new asset classes in our industry, we may not be able to successfully introduce new asset classes in a timely manner, or at all. The development and marketing of new asset classes in our industry is extremely costly and requires a substantial amount of time. Our ability to successfully market and sell a new asset class depends on our financial resources, the performance results of the asset class, the timing of the offering and our marketing strategies. Once an asset class is developed, whether through acquisition or internal development, we need to be able to effectively market the asset class to our existing and prospective clients. This entails incurring significant financial expenses related to research on the target assets and the demand for such asset class in the market, as well as sales and marketing costs associated with attracting assets to the new asset class. In addition, our ability to sell new asset classes to our existing and prospective clients depends on our ability to meet or exceed the performance of our competitors who offer the same or similar asset 10 Table of Contents classes. We may not be able to profitably manage the assets within a given asset class. Moreover, it may take years before we are able to produce the level of results that will enable us to attract clients. If we are unable to capitalize on the costs and expenses incurred in developing new asset classes, we may experience losses as a result of our management of these asset classes, and our ability to introduce further new asset classes and compete in our industry may be hampered. If we are unable to successfully and timely expand our asset classes, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position in the asset management industry. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our asset classes under management. We are continually looking for opportunities to expand our asset classes, both in terms of growing our existing asset classes and developing new asset classes focusing on investment areas that we do not currently cover. We intend to grow our asset classes either internally or by acquiring asset classes from third parties. It may be costly and time consuming for us to develop these new assets internally. Moreover, we may not be able to find asset classes that are consistent with our growth strategies or acquire asset classes from third parties on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to expand our asset classes or unable to do so in a timely manner, we may lose clients to other asset management firms, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to pervasive regulation with attendant costs of compliance and serious consequences for violations. Virtually all aspects of our business are subject to various laws and regulations. Violations of such laws or regulations could subject us and/or our employees to disciplinary proceedings or civil or criminal liability, including revocation of licenses, censures, fines or temporary suspension, permanent bar from the conduct of business, conservatorship or closure. Any such proceeding or liability could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including, in some cases, the power to limit or restrict us from operating our business and, in other cases, the powers to place us under conservatorship or closure, in the event we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Due to the extensive regulations and laws to which we are subject, our management is required to devote substantial time and effort to legal and regulatory compliance issues. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to change. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. See “ — Regulation.” Potential misuse of assets and information in the possession of our investment professionals and employees could result in costly litigation and liability for us and our clients. Our investment professionals handle a significant amount of assets, financial and personal information for our clients. Although we have implemented a system of controls to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of assets and information, there can be no assurance that our controls will be adequate to prevent taking or misuse by our portfolio managers or employees. If our controls are ineffective in preventing the fraudulent taking or misuse of assets and information, we could be subject to costly litigation, which could consume a substantial amount of our resources and distract our management from the operation of Westwood and could also result in regulatory sanctions. Additionally, any such fraudulent actions could adversely affect some of our clients in other ways, and these clients could seek redress against us. Acquisitions, which may be part of our long-term business strategy, involve inherent risks that could compromise the success of the combined business and dilute the holdings of current stockholders. As part of our long-term business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of similar or complementary businesses. See “ — Growth Strategy.” If we are not correct when we assess the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates or if we are not successful in integrating the operations of the acquired businesses, the success of the combined business could be compromised. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly associated with acquisitions. These risks include, among others, potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies and to acquisition costs and expenses, the difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption to the business of the combined company and 11 Table of Contents potential diversion of management’s time and attention, the impairment of relationships with and the possible loss of key employees and clients as a result of the changes in management, potential future write-downs related to goodwill impairment in connection with acquisitions, and dilution to the stockholders of the combined company if the acquisition is made for stock of the combined company. In addition, asset classes, technologies or businesses of acquired companies may not be effectively assimilated into our business or have a positive effect on the combined company’s revenues or earnings. The combined company may also incur significant expense to complete acquisitions and to support the acquired asset classes and businesses. Further, any such acquisitions may be funded with cash, debt or equity, which could have the effect of diluting the holdings or limiting the rights of stockholders. Finally, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms. Various factors may hinder the declaration and payment of dividends. We have historically paid a quarterly dividend. However, the payment of dividends in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and various factors may prevent us from paying dividends. Such factors include our financial position, capital requirements and liquidity, the existence of a stock repurchase program, any loan agreement restrictions, state corporate and banking law restrictions, results of operations and such other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. In addition, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the dividends and income we receive from our subsidiaries. At the present time our primary source of cash is dividends that may be received from Westwood Management or Westwood Trust. The payment of dividends by Westwood Management or Westwood Trust is subject to the discretion of their Boards of Directors and compliance with applicable laws, including, in particular, the provisions of the Texas Finance Code applicable to Westwood Trust. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our business is vulnerable to systems failures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any delays or inaccuracies in securities pricing information or information processing could give rise to claims against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third party vendors for securities pricing information and updates from certain software. We may suffer a systems failure or interruption, whether caused by an earthquake, fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, unauthorized access, act of God, act of war or otherwise, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate or sufficient to eliminate the risk of extended interruptions in operations. We may not be able to fund future capital requirements on favorable terms if at all. We cannot be certain that financing to fund our working capital or other cash requirements, if needed, will be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our capital requirements will vary greatly from quarter to quarter depending on, among other things, capital expenditures, fluctuations in our operating results and financing activities. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. However, if future financing is necessary, we may or may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. Further, any future equity financings could dilute the relative percentage ownership of the then existing holders of our common stock, and any future debt financings could involve restrictive covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions. 12 Table of Contents The tax separation agreement that we entered into with SWS contains indemnification obligations for SWS and us that neither party may be able to satisfy, which could result in increased expenses and liabilities for us. The tax separation agreement that we entered into with SWS allocates responsibility between SWS and us for various liabilities and obligations. However, the availability of such indemnities will depend upon the future financial strength of SWS and us. SWS or we may not be in a financial position to fund such indemnities if they should arise, which could result in increased expenses and liabilities for us. The tax separation agreement provides that each party will indemnify the other with respect to some taxes attributable to their respective businesses arising before or after the spin-off. Some provisions may discourage a third party from acquiring control of Westwood. It could be difficult for a potential bidder to acquire us because our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts. In particular, our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws permit our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board may determine. Additionally, our directors may only be removed for cause by a vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of stock entitled to vote, and stockholders cannot act by written consent. We have also elected to not exclude ourselves from the restrictions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which makes it more difficult for a person who is an “interested stockholder” to effect various business combinations with a corporation for a three-year period. These provisions may increase the cost or difficulty for a third party to acquire control of us or may discourage acquisition bids altogether. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 