Risk Factors Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC are outlined below. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company Unpredictable disasters and other catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophic events. Many of our insurance and reinsurance policies cover unpredictable natural and other disasters, such as hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, floods, fires, explosions and terrorism. In recent years, the frequency of major weather-related catastrophes is believed to have increased. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of the frequency of loss events, the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by each event and the severity of the events. Increases in the value of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal period and adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to write new insurance and reinsurance policies could also be impacted as a result of corresponding reductions in our capital. We manage certain key quantifiable risks using a combination of CATM, various third-party vendor models and underwriting judgment. We focus on tracking exposed contract limits, estimating the potential impact of a single natural catastrophe event, and simulating our yearly net operating result to reflect aggregate underwriting and investment risk. Accordingly, if our assumptions are materially incorrect, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be significantly higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not maintain favorable financial strength ratings which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength, including claims-paying ability, of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies and are subject to revision at any time at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Some of the criteria relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances that are outside of our control. Financial strength ratings are used by policyholders, agents and brokers as an important means of assessing the suitability of insurers and reinsurers as business counterparties and have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. These financial strength ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase or discontinue any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. Rating agencies periodically evaluate us to determine whether we continue to meet the criteria of the ratings previously assigned to us. A downgrade or withdrawal of our financial strength ratings could limit or prevent us from writing new insurance or reinsurance contracts or renewing existing contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s could trigger provisions allowing some cedants to opt to cancel their reinsurance contracts with us and a downgrade of Montpelier Re’s A.M. Best financial strength rating to below “B++” would constitute an event of default under certain of our letter of credit and revolving credit facilities. Either of these events could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. We are highly dependent on a small number of insurance and reinsurance brokers for a large portion of our revenues. Additionally, we are subject to credit risk with respect to brokers. We market our reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. The majority of our gross premiums written are sourced through a limited number of brokers with Aon Corporation, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Group Holdings Limited providing a total of 74% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2009. 26 Table of Contents The nature of our dependency on these brokers relates to the high volume of business they consistently refer to us. Our relationship with such brokers is based on the quality of the underwriting and claims services we provide to our cedants and on our financial strength ratings. Any deterioration in these factors could result in these brokers advising cedants to place their risks with other reinsurers rather than with us. In addition, affiliates of some of these brokers have co-sponsored the formation of reinsurance companies that directly compete with us, and these brokers may favor those reinsurers over us. A loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are frequently required to pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the ceding companies that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the ceding company for the deficiency. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding company pays premiums for these policies to brokers, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the ceding insurer is no longer liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance protection to the extent we desire on acceptable terms. Additionally, we may be unable to collect all amounts due from our reinsurers under our existing reinsurance arrangements. In the normal course of business, we purchase reinsurance from third parties in order to manage our exposures. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through these arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are not relieved of our obligation to our policyholders or ceding companies by purchasing reinsurance. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance protections in the event that a reinsurer is unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of a significant weakening in its financial condition. A number of reinsurers in the industry were significantly weakened in the aftermath of the active 2005 hurricane season and the deterioration of world-wide credit and financial markets experienced during 2008. It is possible that one or more of our reinsurers will be significantly weakened by future significant events, causing them to be unable to honor amounts owed to us. We also may be unable to recover amounts due under our reinsurance arrangements if our reinsurers choose to withhold payment due to disputes or other factors beyond our control. Our inability to collect amounts due from our reinsurers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide reinsurance to many ceding companies is dependant upon the availability and cost of permissible security arrangements. Ceding insurers generally receive full credit for outwards reinsurance protections in their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to liabilities ceded to admitted U.S. domestic reinsurers. However, cedants in the U.S. do not receive full credit for outwards reinsurance protections for liabilities ceded to non-admitted or unlicensed reinsurers, such as Montpelier Re, unless such reinsurers collateralize all ceded liabilities. Under applicable statutory provisions, permissible security arrangements include letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees and funds withheld arrangements. The cost and availability of these security arrangements vary, and adverse changes in cost or availability could negatively impact Montpelier Re’s ability to provide reinsurance to U.S. ceding insurers. Emerging claims and coverage issues could adversely affect our business. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverages may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverages beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. In addition, we are unable to predict the extent to which the courts may expand the theory of liability under a casualty insurance contract, such as the range of occupational hazards causing losses under employers’ liability insurance, thereby increasing our reinsurance exposure. 27 Table of Contents In addition, coverage disputes are also common within the insurance and reinsurance industries. For example, a reinsurance contract might limit the amount that can be recovered as a result of flooding. However, if the flood damage was caused by an event that also caused extensive wind damage, the determination and quantification of the two types of damage is often a matter of judgment. Similarly, one geographic zone could be affected by more than one catastrophic event. In this case, the amount recoverable from a reinsurer may, in part, be determined by the judgmental allocation of damage between the storms. Given the magnitude of the amounts at stake involved with a catastrophic event, these types of judgment occasionally necessitate third-party resolution. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and LAE and, as a result, our financial results could be adversely affected. We maintain loss and LAE reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities. Loss and LAE reserves are typically comprised of case reserves for losses reported and IBNR reserves for losses that have occurred but for which claims have not yet been reported which include a provision for expected future development on case reserves. These reserves are estimates based on what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us, including but not limited to potential changes in the legal environment and other factors such as inflation and demand surge. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimating loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate. If we determine in the future that our reserves are insufficient to cover our actual loss and LAE, we would have to strengthen our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Lines of business that we are developing through MUI and MUSIC will change the composition of our overall book of business in ways which could adversely impact our financial results. One of the lines of business being pursued by MUI and MUSIC is excess and surplus lines insurance, which covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and requires a high degree of specialized underwriting. As such, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. The business that we intend to underwrite in this market fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than that in the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general and its cyclical nature can be more pronounced than the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (i.e., those favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market back to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market can be significantly more rapid than growth in the standard insurance market. In softer market conditions (i.e. those less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to loosen underwriting standards and seek to expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rates decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our stated catastrophe and enterprise-wide risk management exposures are based on estimates and judgments which are subject to significant uncertainties. Our approach to risk management relies on subjective variables which entail significant uncertainties. For example, in our treaty reinsurance business, the effectiveness of gross reinsurance contract zonal limits in managing risk depends largely on the degree to which an actual event is confined to the zone in question and our ability to determine the actual location of the risks insured. Moreover, in the treaties we write, the definition of a single occurrence may differ from policy to policy and the legal interpretation of a policy’s various terms and conditions following a catastrophic event may be different than we envisioned at its inception. For these and other reasons, there can be no assurance that our aggregate gross reinsurance treaty exposure in a single zone, from a single event, will not exceed our reported measure of that zone’s stated maximum gross treaty contract limit. 28 Table of Contents Our Natural Catastrophe Risk Management disclosure provided in Item 7 herein involves a substantial number of subjective variables, factors and uncertainties. Small changes in assumptions, which are heavily reliant upon our judgment, can have a significant impact on the modeled output resulting from our internal simulations. Further, these disclosures do not take into account numerous real, but non-quantifiable, inputs and risks such as the implications of a loss of our financial strength ratings on our business. Although we believe that these probabilistic measures provide a meaningful indicator of the relative riskiness of certain events and changes to our business over time, these measures do not predict our actual exposure to, nor guarantee our successful management of, future losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Global financial markets and economic conditions, which may change suddenly and dramatically, could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio consists of fixed maturity investments, equity securities and other investments including private placements, limited partnership interests and derivative instruments. Our primary investment focus is to maximize risk-adjusted total returns while maintaining adequate liquidity. Since investing entails substantial risks, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives and our investment performance may vary substantially year-to-year. The value of our investment portfolio can be significantly affected by fluctuations in interest rates, issuer credit concerns and volatility in financial markets. Our investments are sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, the financial position of issuers and financial guarantors of investment securities and other factors beyond our control. For example, during 2008, difficult conditions worldwide in the debt and equity markets, and in worldwide economies generally, adversely affected our business and results of operations. These unfavorable and uncertain conditions originated, in large part, from difficulties encountered in the mortgage and broader credit markets in the U.S. and elsewhere and resulted in a sudden decrease in the availability of credit, a corresponding increase in borrowing costs and an increase in residential mortgage delinquencies and foreclosures. As a result, many issuers of such securities as well as the financial guarantors of such securities, experienced a sudden deterioration in credit quality which caused both a decline in liquidity and prices for these types of securities. These factors resulted in broad and significant declines in the fair value of fixed income and equity securities worldwide, including investment securities held in our investment portfolio. While markets began to recover in 2009, concerns about the availability and cost of credit, inflation, mortgage markets, risks associated with global sovereign entities, the stability of banks and other financial institutions, and declining real estate markets remain, continue and may contribute to further market volatility. Further, the potential for government policy initiatives to alter rules for financial institutions in terms of how they conduct business may impact our investment portfolio. These factors, combined with declining consumer confidence, adverse unemployment trends, volatile oil and other commodity prices and the sustainability of governmental initiatives may hinder recovery or contribute to further economic difficulties. We cannot predict how long these difficult conditions may persist and how we might be further affected. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by our inability to attract and retain staff. Our success will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain our principal employees. As of December 31, 2009, we had 209 full-time employees worldwide whom we depend upon for the generation and servicing of our business. Our future success depends on our ability to hire and retain personnel. Difficulty in hiring or retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of our employees, including several executive officers, are employed in Bermuda. Although to date we have generally been successful in recruiting employees in Bermuda, its location may be an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel, particularly if we are unable to secure work permits. In addition, Bermuda is currently a highly-competitive location for qualified staff making it harder to retain employees. Many of our Bermuda employees are required to have work permits granted by the Bermuda government, which has a policy that limits the duration of work permits to six years, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. These permits expire at various times over the next several years and we have no assurance that these permits will be extended upon expiration. 29 Table of Contents Operational risks, including potential human and system failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks that are inherent to our business can result in losses, including those resulting from fraud or errors by our employees or a failure of our information technology systems. In particular, we believe that the performance of our information technology systems is critical to our business and our ability to properly service our business. Such systems are, and will continue to be, a crucial part of our underwriting process. Any defect or error in our information technology systems could result in, among other things, a loss or delay of revenues, higher than expected losses or harm to our reputation. We believe we have established appropriate controls and mitigation procedures to prevent significant errors or irregularities, but such procedures provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities. As a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends or distributions from our operating subsidiaries. We are a holding company and, as such, we have no substantial operations of our own. We rely primarily on cash dividends or distributions from our operating subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends or distributions to our shareholders. Our insurance and reinsurance operations are highly regulated by authoritative bodies in Bermuda, the U.K., the U.S. and Switzerland. The various laws and regulations that we are subject to within these jurisdictions limit the declaration and payment of dividends or distributions from our insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, under the Companies Act, the Company and Montpelier Re may only declare or pay a dividend or distribution if, among other matters, there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of them is, or would after the payment be, able to pay its respective liabilities as they become due and the realizable value of its assets would be more than the aggregate of its liabilities, its issued share capital and its additional paid-in capital. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will declare or pay dividends or distributions in the future. Any determination to pay future dividends or distributions will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends or distributions, and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. The inability of our insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries and affiliates to pay dividends or distributions in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet any of our holding company cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, through the issuance of debt, equity or hybrid securities, in order to, among other things, write new business, pay significant losses, respond to, or comply with, any changes in the capital requirements that rating agencies use to evaluate us, acquire new businesses, invest in existing businesses or to refinance our existing obligations. The issuance of any new debt, equity or hybrid financial instruments might contain terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us and our shareholders. More specifically, any new issuances of equity or hybrid securities could result in the issuance of securities with rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of Common Shares and could prove to be dilutive to our existing Common Shares. Further, if we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or otherwise, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. The U.S. dollar is the Company’s reporting currency. The British pound is the functional currency for the operations of Syndicate 5151, MUAL, PUAL, MCL, MUSL and MMSL and the Swiss franc is the functional currency for the operations of MEAG. In addition, we write a portion of our business, receive premiums and pay losses in foreign currencies and may maintain a portion of our investment portfolio in investments denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We may experience foreign exchange losses to the extent our foreign currency exposure is not successfully managed or otherwise hedged, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Competition may reduce our operating margins. Competition in the insurance and reinsurance industry has increased as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market share through organic growth, mergers and acquisitions, and reorganization activities. As the industry evolves, competition for customers may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will grow. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins. We currently compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources. We also compete with several other Bermuda-based reinsurers that write reinsurance and that target the same market as we do and utilize similar business strategies, and many of these companies currently have more capital. We also compete with capital markets participants such as investment banks and investment funds that access business in securitized form or through special purpose vehicles or derivative transactions. As new insurance and reinsurance companies are formed and established competitors raise additional capital, any resulting increase in competition could affect our ability to attract or retain business or to write business at premium rates sufficient to cover losses. If competition limits our ability to write new business and renew existing business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. Regulation may restrict our ability to operate. Our insurance and reinsurance operations are subject to extensive regulation under Bermuda, U.S., U.K. and Swiss laws. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of our business, which may include premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, policy forms and capital adequacy. These governmental agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the maintenance of reserves. Changes in laws and regulations may restrict our ability to operate and/or have an adverse effect upon the profitability of our business within a given jurisdiction. For example, since 2007 there have been a number of government initiatives in Florida designed to decrease insurance rates in the state. Of most significance to reinsurers was the large increase in the capacity of the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), a state-run reinsurer. We believe any increase in capacity of private reinsurers and the FHCF will cause downward pressure on windstorm catastrophe rates for the foreseeable future, particularly for Florida residential exposures. In addition, state and Federal legislation has been proposed to establish catastrophe funds and to discourage development in coastal areas which could adversely impact our business. A further example is Solvency II, which is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the EU insurance industry. Solvency II aims to establish a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards that are expected to replace the current Solvency I requirements in 2012. The final requirements of Solvency II have not yet been published, and key aspects remain subject to the political process. However, from the Level 1 (framework principles), Level 2 (implementing measures) and Level 3 (guidance) materials published to date we expect that Solvency II will ultimately impact the operational requirements of Montpelier Re and Syndicate 5151 as a consequence of regulatory actions that will be taken in due course by the BMA and the FSA, respectively. Since the Solvency II requirements have not yet been finalized, their impact on our operations cannot be quantified at this time. Political, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The supply of property catastrophe reinsurance coverage decreased due to the withdrawal of capacity and substantial reductions in capital resulting from, among other things, the September 11th terrorist attacks. This tightening of supply resulted in government intervention significantly increasing the government’s role in insurance and reinsurance markets at the expense of private markets. TRIA was enacted to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts in the U.S. This law establishes a federal assistance program to help commercial insurers and reinsurers in the property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism related losses and regulates the terms of insurance relating to terrorism coverage. The enactment of the TRIPRA in December 2007 extended the program’s expiration from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2014. 31 Table of Contents Similarly, following the 2005 hurricane season, rates significantly increased which prompted legislative and administrative regulatory actions by the State of Florida. This government intervention and the possibility of future interventions have created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by: · Providing insurance and reinsurance capacity, in some cases at government-subsidized rates, in markets and to consumers that we target; · Requiring our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; · Expanding the scope of coverage under existing policies; · Regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or · Disproportionately benefitting the companies of one country over those of another. The insurance and reinsurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability. Such changes may result in delays or cancellations of products and services by insurers and reinsurers, which could adversely affect our business. Some direct writers are currently facing lawsuits and other actions designed to expand coverage related to hurricane Katrina losses beyond that which those insurers believed they would be held liable for prior to that event. It is impossible to predict what impact similar actions may have on us in the future. We may also be subject to political, regulatory and industry initiatives in other jurisdictions in which we do business. Risks Related to Common Shares The market price and trading volume of Common Shares may be subject to significant volatility. The market price and trading volume of Common Shares may be subject to significant volatility in response to a variety of events and factors, including but not limited to: · catastrophes that may specifically impact us or are perceived by investors as impacting the insurance and reinsurance industries in general; · exposure to capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, realized investment losses, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates; · variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations about our future operating results; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or the insurance and reinsurance industries in general; · the overall performance of other companies that investors may deem to be our peers; · news reports relating to our business and trends in the markets in which we operate; and, · acquisitions, strategic initiatives and financing activities undertaken by us or our peers. In addition, markets around the world have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities of issuers for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the price of Common Shares, regardless of our operating performance. Provisions in our charter documents restrict the voting rights of Common Shares. Our bye-laws generally provide that, if any person beneficially owns or is deemed to beneficially own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of Section 958 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code), more than 9.5% of Common Shares, the voting rights attached to such Common Shares will be reduced so that such person may not exercise and is not attributed more than 9.5% of the total voting rights. 32 Table of Contents Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to our shareholders. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us based on the civil liability provisions of the Federal or state securities laws of the U.S., either in Bermuda or in countries other than the U.S. where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the Federal or state securities laws of the U.S. or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the U.S., particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S. Holders of Common Shares may have difficulty effecting service of process on us or enforcing judgments against us in the U.S. We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and are headquartered in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, and the assets of such persons, are located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. As such, we have been advised that there is doubt as to whether: · a holder of Common Shares would be able to enforce, in the courts of Bermuda, judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws; · a holder of Common Shares would be able to bring an original action in the Bermuda courts to enforce liabilities against us or our directors and officers, as well as the experts named in this Form 10-K, who reside outside the U.S. based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, there is no treaty in effect between the U.S. and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for a holder of Common Shares to recover against us based upon such judgments. We may require our shareholders to sell us their Common Shares. Under our bye-laws and subject to Bermuda law, we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell some or all of their Common Shares to us at fair market value (which would be based upon the average closing price of Common Shares as defined under our bye-laws) if the Board of Directors reasonably determines, in good faith based on an opinion of counsel, that share ownership, directly, indirectly or constructively by any shareholder is likely to result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, certain of our other shareholders or our subsidiaries. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Taxation Our Bermuda companies may be subject to U.S. tax. The Company and Montpelier Re currently intend to conduct substantially all of their operations in Bermuda in a manner such that they will not be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. However, because there is no definitive authority regarding activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not contend, perhaps successfully, that the Company or Montpelier Re is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. A foreign corporation deemed to be so engaged would be subject to U.S. income tax, as well as the branch profits tax, on its income that is treated as effectively connected with the conduct of that trade or business unless the corporation is entitled to relief under a tax treaty. In addition, Congress has discussed legislation from time-to-time intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda reinsurers and U.S. companies with Bermuda affiliates, and is currently considering proposals which, if adopted, are expected to adversely impact such operations. While these legislative proposals would not have a material impact on our current results, such proposals and/or additional legislative proposals could have an material future impact on us or our shareholders. Proposed U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect U.S. shareholders. Under current U.S. law, non-corporate U.S. holders of Common Shares generally are taxed on dividends at a capital gains tax rate rather than ordinary income tax rates. Both Houses of Congress have considered legislation that would exclude shareholders of foreign corporations from this advantageous income tax treatment unless either (i) the corporation is organized or created under the laws of a country that has entered into a “comprehensive income tax treaty” with the U.S. or (ii) the stock of such corporation is readily tradable on an established securities market in the U.S. and the corporation is organized or created under the laws of a country that has a “comprehensive income tax system” that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury determines is satisfactory for this purpose. We would likely not satisfy either of these tests and, accordingly, if this legislation became law, individual U.S. shareholders would no longer qualify for the capital gains tax rate on dividends paid by us. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we had no unresolved comments from the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 