Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in considering our business and prospects. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We expect to incur losses in future periods. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred losses from operations of approximately $2.7 million, $6.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur losses from operations in future periods. Any profitability we may achieve in the future may not be indicative of sustained profitability. Any losses incurred in the future may result primarily from increased costs related to continued investments in sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses. If our revenue growth does not occur or is slower than anticipated or our operating expenses exceed expectations, our losses will be greater. We may never achieve profitability. Our PacketLogic family of products is our only product line. All of our current revenues and a significant portion of our future growth depend on our ability to continue its commercialization. All of our current revenues and much of our anticipated future growth depend on the development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products in our PacketLogic product line that address additional market requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner. In the past, we have experienced delays in product development and such delays may occur in the future. We do not currently have plans or resources to develop additional product lines, and as a result, our future growth will largely be determined by market acceptance of our PacketLogic product line. If additional customers do not adopt, purchase and deploy our PacketLogic products, our revenues will not grow and may decline. In addition, when we announce new products or product enhancements that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing products, customers may defer purchasing our existing products. These actions could harm our operating results by unexpectedly decreasing sales and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We need to increase the functionality of our products and offer additional features in order to be competitive. The market in which we operate is highly competitive and unless we continue to enhance the functionality of our products and add additional features, our competitive position may deteriorate and the average selling prices for our products may decrease over time. Such a decrease could result from the introduction of competing products and from the standardization of DPI technology. To counter this trend, we endeavor to enhance our products by offering higher system speeds and additional features, such as additional protection functionality, supporting additional applications and enhanced reporting tools. We may also need to reduce our per unit manufacturing costs at a rate equal to or faster than the rate at which selling prices decline. If we are unable to reduce these costs or to offer increased functionally and features, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. If our products contain undetected software or hardware errors or performance deficiencies, we could incur significant unexpected expenses, experience purchase order cancellations and lose sales. Network products frequently contain undetected software or hardware errors, failures or bugs when new products or new versions or updates of existing products are first released to the marketplace. Because we frequently introduce new versions and updates to our product line, previously unaddressed errors in the accuracy or reliability of our products, or issues with their performance, may arise. We expect that such errors or performance deficiencies will be found from time to time in the future in new or existing products, including the components incorporated therein, after the commencement of commercial shipments. These problems may have a material adverse effect on our business by requiring us to incur significant warranty repair costs and support related replacement costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from new product development efforts, delaying the recognition of revenue and causing significant customer relations problems. In addition, if our products are not accepted by customers due to software or hardware defects or performance deficiencies, orders contingent upon acceptance may be cancelled, which could result in lost sales opportunities. In this circumstance, or if warranty returns exceed the amount we have accrued for defect returns based on our historical experience, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our products must properly interface with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a computer or communications network, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We may need to raise further capital, which could dilute or otherwise adversely affect your interest in our company. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, along with the cash that we expect to generate from operations and any required debt financing that management currently believes is available, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. However, a number of factors may negatively impact our level of cash availability and working capital requirements, including, without limitation: ● lower than anticipated revenues; ● higher than expected cost of goods sold or operating expenses; or ● the inability of our customers to pay for the goods and services ordered. We believe that current general economic conditions and the recent global credit market crisis have created a significantly more difficult environment for obtaining both equity and debt financing. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution and such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all, especially in light of the current economic environment. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of unanticipated growth or acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, we may be required to defer or cancel product development programs, lay-off employees and/or take other steps to reduce our operating expenses. Our inability to raise additional financing or the terms of any financing we do raise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a limited operating history on which to evaluate our company. The products we sell today are derived primarily from the acquisition of the Netintact companies in 2006. While we have the experience of Netintact operations on a stand-alone basis, we are continuing to determine how to operate most effectively on a combined basis. We have not developed sufficient experience to estimate the scope of the business opportunities that may be achieved from our combined operations. Furthermore, we have only recently launched many of our products and services on a worldwide basis. Therefore, investors should consider the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, which include the following: ● successfully introducing new products and entering new markets; ● successfully servicing and upgrading new products once introduced; ● increasing brand recognition; ● developing strategic relationships and alliances; ● managing expanding operations and sales channels; ● successfully responding to competition; and ● attracting, retaining and motivating qualified personnel. If we are unable to address these risks and uncertainties, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Competition for experienced and skilled personnel is intense and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly damage our business. Our future performance will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. We are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate high caliber key personnel. We have recently hired new employees and our plans to expand in all areas will require experienced personnel to augment our current staff. We expect to recruit experienced professionals in such areas as software and hardware development, sales, technical support, product marketing and management. We currently plan to expand our indirect channel partner program and we need to attract qualified business partners to broaden these sales channels. Economic conditions may result in significant competition for qualified personnel and we may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our business may suffer if we encounter material delays in hiring additional personnel. 15 Table of Contents Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, James Brear, and our Chief Technical Officer, Alexander Haväng. Mr. Brear joined the Company and became our Chief Executive Officer in February 2008. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our business. We believe we will need to attract, retain and motivate talented management and other highly skilled employees in order to execute on our business plan. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. In California, where we are headquartered, non-competition agreements with employees generally are unenforceable. As a result, if an employee based in California leaves the Company for any reason, he or she will generally be able to begin employment with one of our competitors or otherwise to compete immediately against us. We currently do not have key person insurance in place. If we lose one of our key officers, we must attract, hire, and retain an equally competent person to take his or her place. There is no assurance that we would be able to find such an employee in a timely fashion. If we fail to recruit an equally qualified replacement or incur a significant delay, our business plans may slow down. We could fail to implement our strategy or lose sales and marketing and development momentum. Failure to expand our sales teams or educate them about technologies and our product families may harm our operating results. The sale of our products requires a multi-faceted approach directed at several levels within a prospective customer’s organization. We may not be able to increase net revenue unless we expand our sales teams to address all of the customer requirements necessary to sell our products. We expect to continue hiring in sales and marketing, but there can be no assurance that personnel additions will have a positive effect on our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate new employees into the Company or to educate current and future employees with regard to rapidly evolving technologies and our product families. Failure to do so may hurt our revenue growth and operating results. Increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. We offer technical support services with our products. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services offered by our competitors. Further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. If we experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers and our results of operations. We must continue to develop and increase the productivity of our indirect distribution channels to increase net revenue and improve our operating results. A key focus of our distribution strategy is developing and increasing the productivity of our indirect distribution channels through resellers and distributors. If we fail to develop and cultivate relationships with significant resellers, or if these resellers are not able to execute on their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our operating results could suffer. Many of our resellers also sell products from other vendors that compete with our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into additional reseller and/or distribution agreements or that we will be able to manage our product sales channels. Our failure to do any of these could limit our ability to grow or sustain revenue. In addition, our operating results will likely fluctuate significantly depending on the timing and amount of orders from our resellers. We cannot assure you that our resellers and/or distributors will continue to market or sell our products effectively or continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. Such failure would negatively affect revenue and our potential to achieve profitability. We may be unable to compete effectively with competitors which are substantially larger and more established and have greater resources. In our rapidly evolving and highly competitive market, we compete on the price as well as the performance of our products. We expect competition to remain intense in the future. Increased competition could result in reduced prices and gross margins for our products and could require increased spending by us on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support, any of which could have a negative financial impact on our business. We compete with Allot Communications, Arbor Networks, Blue Coat Systems, Brocade Communications Systems, Cloudshield Technologies, Cisco Systems, Ericsson, Huawei Technologies Company, Juniper Networks, and Sandvine Corporation, as well as other companies which sell products incorporating competing technologies. In addition, our products and technology compete with other types of products that offer monitoring capabilities, such as probes and related software. We also face indirect competition from companies that offer broadband service providers increased bandwidth and infrastructure upgrades that increase the capacity of their networks, which may lessen or delay the need for bandwidth management solutions. 16 Table of Contents Most of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater name recognition and financial, sales and marketing, technical, manufacturing and other resources and more established distribution channels than we do. In addition, some potential customers have in the past advised us that we were not able to compete for their business due to concerns about our financial condition. While we have attempted to address balance sheet concerns with our recent financing activities, it is possible that a potential customer could raise similar concerns in the future. Our competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, prospective customers often have expressed greater confidence in the product offerings of our competitors. Some of our competitors may make acquisitions or establish strategic relationships that may increase their ability to rapidly gain market share by addressing the needs of our prospective customers. Competitors may enter our existing or future markets with solutions that may be less expensive, provide higher performance or provide additional features than our solutions. Given the opportunities in the bandwidth management solutions market, we also expect that other companies may enter with alternative products and technologies, which could reduce the sales or market acceptance of our products and services, perpetuate intense price competition or make our products obsolete. If any technology that is competing with ours is or becomes more reliable, higher performing, less expensive or has other advantages over our technology, then the demand for our products and services would decrease, which would harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues may be dependent on a small number of Tier 1 service providers that purchase in large quantities. If we are unable to maintain or replace our relationships with these customers, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth may be limited. Since 2008, when we first established customer relations with Tier 1 service providers, a significant portion of our revenues has come from a limited number of customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain our revenue levels from these customers because their capacity requirements have become or will become fulfilled. For this reason, we do not expect that any single customer will generally remain a significant customer from year to year, and we will need to attract new customers in order to sustain our revenues. In the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, revenue from one customer represented 11% and 44% of net revenues, respectively, with no other single customer accounting for more than 10% of net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2008, revenue from two other customers represented 16% and 10% of net revenues, respectively, with no other single customer accounting for more than 10% of net revenue. The proportion of our revenues derived from a limited number of customers may be even higher in any future year or quarter. If we cannot maintain or replace the customers that purchase large amounts of our products, or if they do not purchase products at the levels or at the times that we anticipate, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our anticipated growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies and have difficulty meeting demand for our products. We seek to manage our growth so as not to exceed our available capital resources. If our customer base and market grow rapidly, we would need to expand to meet this demand. This expansion could place a significant strain on our management, products and support operations, sales and marketing personnel and other resources, which could harm our business. If demand for our products and services grows rapidly, we may experience difficulties meeting the demand. For example, the installation and use of our products requires customer training. If we are unable to provide adequate training and support for our products, the implementation process will be longer and customer satisfaction may be lower. In addition, we may not be able to exploit fully the growing market for our products and services. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support the anticipated growth in our operations. The failure to meet the challenges presented by rapid customer and market expansion could cause us to miss sales opportunities and otherwise have a negative impact on our sales and profitability. We may not be able to install management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the current volatile global business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If financial markets continue to experience volatility or deterioration, it may make any debt or equity financing that we require more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. In addition, a renewed or deeper economic downturn may result in reduced demand for our products, or adversely impact our customers’ ability to pay for our products, which would harm our operating results. There is also a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive in the current economic environment, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We have limited ability to protect our intellectual property and defend against claims which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely primarily on patents, trade secrets, contractual rights and trademark law to protect our intellectual property rights in our PacketLogic product line. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken will adequately protect our intellectual property rights or that other parties will not independently develop similar or competing products that do not infringe on our patents. We enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and corporate partners, and take appropriate measures to control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise misappropriate or use our products or technology. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, or if we agree to settle any such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid any claims of infringement may be costly or impractical. Litigation resulting from claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a small number of contract manufacturers to build our hardware products. If we are unable to have our products manufactured quickly enough to keep up with demand or we experience manufacturing quality problems, our operating results could be harmed. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our capacity for material purchases, production, testing and quality control functions. Any disruptions in product flow could limit our revenue growth and adversely affect our competitive position and reputation, and result in additional costs or cancellation of orders under agreements with our customers. While our PacketLogic products are software based, we rely on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture the hardware components on which are products are installed and operate. In certain circumstances, these contract manufacturers also provide logistics services, which may include loading our software products onto the hardware platforms, testing and inspecting the products, and then shipping them directly to our customers. If these contract manufacturers are unable to meet our demand, or fail to provide such logistics services as we may request in a timely manner, we may experience delays in product shipments. Other performance problems with contract manufacturers may arise in the future, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of products, or the interruption or discontinuance of operations of a manufacturer, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We do not know whether we will effectively manage our contract manufacturers or that these manufacturers will meet our future requirements for timely delivery of product components of sufficient quality and quantity. If one or more of our contract manufacturers were to experience financial difficulties or decide not to continue its business relationship with us, we would need to identify other contract manufacturers to perform these services, and there could be product delivery delays while we seek to establish and implement the new relationship. We also plan to introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require that we rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating our efforts with those of our suppliers and contract manufacturers. Any delays in meeting customer demand or quality problems resulting from the inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality product components, including problems relating to logistic services, could result in lost or reduced future sales to key customers and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. As part of our cost management efforts, we endeavor to lower per unit product costs from our contract manufacturers by means of volume efficiencies and the utilization of manufacturing sites in lower-cost geographies. However, we cannot be certain when or if such cost reductions will occur. The failure to obtain such cost reductions would adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. 18 Table of Contents If our suppliers fail to adequately supply us with certain original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, sourced components, our product sales may suffer. Reliance upon OEMs, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several additional risks, including the possibility of a shortage of components and reduced control over delivery schedules (which can adversely affect our distribution schedules), and increases in component costs (which can adversely affect our profitability). Most of our hardware products, or the components of our hardware components, are based on industry standards and are therefore available from multiple manufacturers. If our supplier were to fail to deliver, alternative suppliers should be available, although qualification of the alternative manufacturers and establishment of reliable suppliers could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could affect operating results adversely. However, in some specific cases we have single-sourced components, because alternative sources are not currently available. If these components were not available for a period of time, we could experience product supply interruptions, delays or inefficiencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products to large broadband service providers often involve a lengthy sales cycle, which may cause our revenues to fluctuate from period to period and could result in us expending significant resources without making any sales. Our sales cycles often are lengthy, because our prospective customers undertake significant testing to assess the performance of our products within their networks. As a result, we may invest significant time from initial contact with a customer before that end-customer decides to purchase and incorporate our products in its network. We may also expend significant resources attempting to persuade large broadband service providers to incorporate our products into their networks without any measure of success. Even after deciding to purchase our products, initial network deployment and acceptance testing of our products by a large broadband service provider may last several years. Carriers, especially in North America, often require that products they purchase meet Network Equipment Building System, or NEBS, certification requirements, which relate the reliability of telecommunications equipment. While our PacketLogic products and future products are and are expected to be designed to meet NEBS certification requirements, they may fail to do so. Due to our lengthy sales cycle, particularly to larger customers, and our revenue recognition practices, we expect our revenue may fluctuate significantly from period to period. In pursuing sales opportunities with larger enterprises, we expect that we will make fewer sales to larger entities, but that the magnitude of individual sales will be greater. We may report substantial revenue growth in the period that we recognize the revenue from a large sale, which may not be repeated in an immediately subsequent period. Because our revenues may fluctuate materially from period to period, the price of our common stock may decline. In addition, even after we have received commitments from a customer to purchase our products, in accordance with our revenue recognition practices we may not be able to recognize and report the revenue from that purchase for months or years after the time of purchase. As a result, there could be significant delays in our receipt and recognition of revenue following sales orders for our products. In addition, if a competitor succeeds in convincing a large broadband service provider to adopt that competitor’s product, it may be difficult for us to displace the competitor at a later time because of the cost, time, effort and perceived risk to network stability involved in changing solutions. As a result, we may incur significant sales and marketing expenses without generating any sales. Our operating results could be adversely affected by product sales occurring outside the United States and fluctuations in the value of the United States Dollar against foreign currencies. A significant percentage of PacketLogic sales are generated outside of the United States. PacketLogic sales and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies could affect our operating results as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets and liabilities because we translate foreign net sales, costs of goods, assets and liabilities into U.S. Dollars for presentation in our financial statements. The primary foreign currencies for which we have exchange rate fluctuation exposure are the European Union Euro, the Swedish Krona and the Australian Dollar. If our revenues continue to grow, we could be exposed to exchange rate fluctuations in other currencies. Exchange rates between these currencies and U.S. Dollars have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may do so in the future. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. We currently do not hedge our foreign currency risk. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes and future accounting pronouncements and regulatory changes have, and will continue to have, an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. In addition, insurance costs, including health and workers’ compensation insurance premiums, have been increasing on an historical basis and are likely to continue to increase in the future. Recent and future pronouncements related to the accounting treatment of executive compensation and employee stock options may also impact operating results. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. 19 Table of Contents Our internal controls may be insufficient to ensure timely and reliable financial information. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: ● pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; ● provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and ● provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls. Under the supervision of our Audit Committee, we are continuing the process of identifying and implementing corrective actions where required to improve the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including the enhancement of systems and procedures. We have a small accounting staff and limited resources and expect that we will continue to be subject to the risk of additional material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. Even after corrective actions are implemented, the effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks including: ● faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; ● collusion of two or more people; ● inappropriate management override of procedures; and ● the risk that enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial information. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. Additionally, if we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, it could adversely affect our ability to comply with financial reporting requirements under certain government contracts. Accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our annual and quarterly financial results which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our financial results may be materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges. Such accounting charges may include: ● amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product rights; ● impairment of goodwill; ● stock-based compensation expense; and ● impairment of long-lived assets. The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of business acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. Our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: 20 Table of Contents ● changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; ● changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; ● changes in accounting and tax treatment of stock-based compensation; ● the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and ● tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, which could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. The price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing. Our headquarters are located in Northern California where disasters may occur that could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our corporate headquarters is located in Silicon Valley in Northern California. Historically, this region has been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to us and our local suppliers. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war targeted at the United States, and specifically Silicon Valley, could cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and resellers, and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Although we currently have significant redundant capacity in Sweden in the event of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in Silicon Valley, our business could nonetheless suffer. Our operations in Sweden are subject to disruption by extreme winter weather. Acquisitions may disrupt or otherwise have a negative impact on our business. We may seek to acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products, services or technologies on an opportunistic basis when we believe they will assist us in executing our business strategy. Growth through acquisitions has been a viable strategy used by other network control and management technology companies. We acquired the Netintact entities in 2006. Any future acquisitions could distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Following any acquisition, the integration of the acquired business, product, service or technology is complex, time consuming and expensive, and may disrupt our business. These challenges include the timely and efficient execution of a number of post-transaction integration activities, including: ● integrating the operations and technologies of the two companies; ● retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; ● retaining existing customers of both companies and attracting additional customers; ● leveraging our existing sales channels to sell new products into new markets; ● developing an appropriate sales and marketing organization and sales channels to sell new products into new markets; ● retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and ● implementing and maintaining uniform standards, internal controls, processes, procedures, policies and information systems. The process of integrating operations and technology could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of our operations and technology could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, the execution of these post-transaction integration activities will involve considerable risks and may not come to pass as we envision. The inability to integrate the operations, technology and personnel of an acquired business with ours, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if we were to issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, the issuance of such equity securities would have a dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Demand for our products depends, in part, on the rate of adoption of bandwidth-intensive broadband applications, such as peer-to-peer, and latency-sensitive applications, such as voice-over-Internet protocol, or VoIP, Internet video and online video gaming applications. Our products are used by broadband service providers and enterprises to provide awareness, control and protection of Internet traffic by examining and identifying packets of data as they pass an inspection point in the network, particularly bandwidth-intensive applications that cause congestion in broadband networks and impact the quality of experience of users. In addition to the general increase in applications delivered over broadband networks that require large amounts of bandwidth, such as peer-to-peer applications, demand for our products is driven particularly by the growth in applications which are highly sensitive to network delays and therefore require efficient network management. These applications include VoIP, Internet video and online video gaming applications. If the rapid growth in adoption of VoIP and in the popularity of Internet video and online video gaming applications does not continue, the demand for our products may not grow as anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the bandwidth management solutions market fails to grow, our business will be adversely affected. We believe that the market for bandwidth management solutions is in an early stage of development. We cannot accurately predict the future size of the market, the products needed to address the market, the optimal distribution strategy, or the competitive environment that will develop. In order for us to execute our strategy, our potential customers must recognize the value of more sophisticated bandwidth management solutions, decide to invest in the management of their networks and the performance of important business software applications and, in particular, adopt our bandwidth management solutions. The growth of the bandwidth management solutions market also depends upon a number of factors, including the availability of inexpensive bandwidth, especially in international markets, and the growth of wide area networks. The failure of the market to rapidly grow would adversely affect our sales and sales prospects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The market for our products in the network provider market is still emerging and our growth may be harmed if carriers do not adopt DPI solutions. The market for DPI technology is still emerging and the majority of our customers to date have been small and midsize broadband service providers and universities. We believe that the Tier 1 carriers, as well as cable and mobile operators, present a significant market opportunity and are an important element of our long term strategy, but they are still in the early stages of adopting and evaluating the benefits and applications of DPI technology. Carriers may decide that full visibility into their networks or highly granular control over content based applications is not critical to their business. They may also determine that certain applications, such as VoIP or Internet video, can be adequately prioritized in their networks by using router and switch infrastructure products without the use of DPI technology. They may also, in some instances, face regulatory constraints that could change the characteristics of the markets. Carriers may also seek an embedded DPI solution in capital equipment devices such as routers rather than the stand-alone solution offered by us. Furthermore, widespread adoption of our products by carriers will require that they migrate to a new business model based on offering subscriber and application-based tiered services. If carriers decide not to adopt DPI technology, our market opportunity would be reduced and our growth rate may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The network equipment market is subject to rapid technological progress and to compete we must continually introduce new products or upgrades that achieve broad market acceptance. The network equipment market is characterized by rapid technological progress, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. If we do not regularly introduce new products or upgrades in this dynamic environment, our product lines will become obsolete. Developments in routers and routing software could also significantly reduce demand for our products. Alternative technologies could achieve widespread market acceptance and displace the technology on which we have based our product architecture. We cannot assure you that our technological approach will achieve broad market acceptance or that other technology or devices will not supplant our products and technology. Our products must comply with evolving industry standards and complex government regulations or else our products may not be widely accepted, which may prevent us from growing our net revenue or achieving profitability. The market for network equipment products is characterized by the need to support new standards as they emerge, evolve and achieve acceptance. We will not be competitive unless we continually introduce new products and product enhancements that meet these emerging standards. We may not be able to effectively address the compatibility and interoperability issues that arise as a result of technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our products must be compliant with various United States federal government requirements and regulations and standards defined by agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission, in addition to standards established by governmental authorities in various foreign countries and recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. If we do not comply with existing or evolving industry standards or if we fail to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, we will not be able to sell our products where these standards or regulations apply, which may prevent us from sustaining our net revenue or achieving profitability. 22 Table of Contents Recently proposed regulatory actions may result in reduced capital spending by broadband service providers, which could adversely impact our opportunities for continued revenue growth. The Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) has been considering different proposals for prohibiting or limiting broadband service providers from providing data prioritization services to their customers. These proposals are referred to generally as relating to "net neutrality". The FCC originally considered proposals that would require broadband service providers to treat all Internet content equally in all circumstances and to prohibit them from providing any data prioritization services. The FCC currently is considering the "Third Way" proposal that would include adopting a rule prohibiting any practice under which Internet access service is provided on unreasonably discriminatory terms and which could result in broad authority to regulate broadband service. It is very uncertain what rules, if any, may be adopted by the FCC regarding net neutrality. In the event that the FCC asserts broad regulatory authority, it is likely that there may be legislative and/or legal challenges to the FCC’s regulatory authority, and while the issue remains unresolved, broadband service providers may lessen their capital investments in their networks. In such a circumstance, we may have fewer opportunities to sell our products to both current and prospective customers, and our opportunity for continued revenue growth could be adversely impacted. If our revenue growth slows or our revenues decrease, our results of operations and our financial condition also may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market for small cap and micro cap technology companies, including us, has been particularly volatile in recent years. Because our stock is thinly traded, investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock following periods of volatility. We cannot assure you that our stock will trade at the same levels of other stocks in our industry or that in general, stocks in our industry will sustain their current market prices. Factors that could cause such volatility may include, among other things: ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; ● announcements of technology innovations by our competitors; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● conditions or trends in the network control and management industry; ● changes in the market valuations of other such industry related companies; ● the acceptance by institutional investors of our stock; ● rumors, announcements or press articles regarding our operations, management, organization, financial condition or financial statements; ● the gain or loss of a significant customer; or ● the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Holders of our common stock may be diluted in the future. We are authorized to issue up to 32,500,000 shares of common stock and 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock and/or preferred stock in the future for such consideration as our Board of Directors may consider sufficient. In addition, we recently effected, at the discretion of our board of directors and upon stockholder approval, a reverse stock split of our common stock which had the effect of proportionately increasing the number of authorized but unissued shares available for future issuance. The issuance of additional common stock and/or preferred stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our common stock held by existing stockholders. At December 31, 2010, there were 11,314,965 shares of our common stock outstanding, outstanding warrants to purchase 409,462 shares of our common stock, and outstanding stock options to purchase 975,153 shares of our common stock. At December 31, 2010, we had an authorized reserve of 266,975 shares of common stock which we may grant as stock options or other equity awards pursuant to our existing stock option plans. These share figures reflect the 1-for-10 reverse stock split that became effective February 4, 2011. 23 Table of Contents Any future issuances of our common stock would dilute the relative ownership interest of our current stockholders, and could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Shares eligible for future sale by our current stockholders may adversely affect our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital at that time through the sale of our securities. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If, and to the extent, outstanding options or warrants are exercised, current stockholders will experience dilution to their holdings. In addition, shares issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and stock options may be immediately sold pursuant to an effective registration statement. If a warrant or option holder exercises a warrant or an option at an exercise price that is less than the prevailing market value of our common stock, the holder may be motivated to immediately sell the resulting shares to realize an immediate gain, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In March 2010 we sold 1,800,000 shares in a registered direct offering, all of which shares are immediately saleable. Sales of large volumes of our stock, including those shares described above, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Nevada law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management team that our stockholders may consider favorable or otherwise have the potential to impact our stockholders’ ability to control our company. Nevada law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of preserving our current management or may impact our stockholders’ ability to control our company, such as: ● authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; ● eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; ● restricting the ability of stockholders to take action by written consent; and ● establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These provisions could allow our Board of Directors to affect your rights as a stockholder since our Board of Directors can make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the Board. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace our current management team. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and may impact the rights of common stockholders. All of the foregoing could adversely impact the price of our common stock and your rights as a stockholder. We do not pay and do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure an investor that funds will be legally available to pay dividends, or that, even if the funds are legally available, the dividends will be paid. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 