ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating us. Risks Inherent in Our Business Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. Subject to the restrictions governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing debt; •impair our ability to obtain additional financings in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general partnership and other purposes; •have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, distributions and other general partnership requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. Furthermore, these consequences could limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand the prevailing economic uncertainty or any future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our existing credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions, which may limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, make or own certain investments, enter into any swap contracts other than in the ordinary course of business, merge, consolidate, or sell assets, incur indebtedness senior to the credit facility, make distributions on equity investments, and declare or make, directly or indirectly, any distribution on our common units. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and guaranteed by all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, including our operating company (please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources). We may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of any of these covenants or our failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of our credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, or proceed against the collateral. 29 Table of Contents Global economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our business and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, consumer interest rates, strength of U.S. currency, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing, inflation and foreign currency exchange rates, may generally affect our business. Recessionary economic cycles, higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates may adversely affect demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. A decline in economic activity and conditions in the United States and any other markets in which we operate could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The significant disruption in the global markets and financial systems and the decline in the U.S. economy in 2008, which continued through 2009 and into 2010 has only recently begun to improve, increased both the volatility and the amplitude of the risk associated with the other risk factors identified in this report. In particular, these events impacted our yield and unit price, and substantially increased our cost of capital during 2009. If the prevailing economic uncertainty persists or in the event of renewed turmoil in the financial systems, there could be an incremental tightening in the capital markets. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on unfavorable terms, which could significantly and adversely impact our ability to execute our long term organic growth projects and meet obligations to our producer customers. Limited access to the capital markets could also adversely impact our ability to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions. Our ability to obtain capital from our Amended Partnership Credit Agreement could be adversely impacted by the failure of one or more of the members of the participating bank group. Although the members of the participating bank group are investment grade, an increased risk does exist. Ultimately we may be required to substantially reduce our future capital expenditures. The prevailing economic uncertainty could also have an impact on our producers, other customers, or counterparties to our commodity hedging arrangements causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations, cash flows and our quarterly distribution on the common units. The uncertainty and volatility of the global economy may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. Furthermore, the current conditions of the global financial markets have contributed, and recent declines in commodity prices may have contributed, to a decline in our unit price and corresponding market capitalization in 2009, and could recur in 2010. Continued declines in our market capitalization could result in an additional noncash impairment of our recorded goodwill. Continued declines in commodity prices could have an adverse impact on cash flows from operations that could result in noncash impairments of long-lived assets, as well as other-than-temporary noncash impairments of our equity method investments. We may not have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and payment of our expenses to enable us to pay distributions at the current level. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales; •the prices of, level of production of, and demand for natural gas and NGLs; •the relative prices of NGLs and crude oil, which impact the effectiveness of our hedging program; 30 Table of Contents •the volumes of natural gas we gather, process and transport; •the level of our operating costs; and •prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our debt service requirements; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; •restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •the level of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures incurred in connection with our enhancement projects; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; and •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Our profitability and cash flows are affected by the volatility of NGL product and natural gas prices. We are subject to significant risks associated with frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The New York Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX") daily settlement price of natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2008 ranged from a high of $13.58 per MMBtu to a low of $5.29 per MMBtu. In 2009, the same index ranged from a high of $6.07 per MMBtu to a low of $2.51 per MMBtu. A composite of the weighted monthly average NGLs price at our Appalachian facilities based on our average NGLs composition in 2008 ranged from a high of approximately $2.24 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.55 per gallon. In 2009, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.44 per gallon to approximately $0.68 per gallon. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •the level of domestic oil, natural gas and NGL production; •demand for natural gas and NGL products in localized markets; •changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications; •imports of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; •seasonality; •the condition of the U.S. economy; •political conditions in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; and •government regulation, legislation and policies. 31 Table of Contents Our net operating margins under various types of commodity-based contracts are directly affected by changes in NGL product prices and natural gas prices, and thus are more sensitive to volatility in commodity prices than our fee-based contracts. Additionally, our purchase and resale of gas in the ordinary course of business exposes us to significant risk of volatility in gas prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales, and the potential existence of a difference in the gas price associated with each transaction. Significant declines in commodity prices could have an adverse impact on cash flows from operations that could result in noncash impairments of long-lived assets, as well as other-than-temporary noncash impairments of our equity method investments. Relative changes in NGL product and natural gas prices may adversely impact our results due to frac spread, natural gas and liquids exposure. Under our keep-whole arrangements, our principal cost is delivering dry gas of an equivalent Btu content to replace Btus extracted from the gas stream in the form of NGLs, or consumed as fuel during processing. The spread between the NGL product sales price and the purchase price of natural gas with an equivalent Btu content is called the "frac spread." Generally, the frac spread and, consequently, the net operating margins are positive under these contracts. In the event natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products, the cost of keeping the producer "whole" results in operating losses. Due to timing of gas purchases and liquid sales, direct exposure to changes in market prices of either gas or liquids can be created because there is no longer an offsetting purchase or sale that remains exposed to market pricing. Through our marketing and derivatives activity, direct exposure may occur naturally or we may choose direct price exposure to either gas or liquids when we favor that exposure over frac spread risk. Given that we have derivative positions, adverse movement in prices to the positions we have taken will negatively impact results. Our commodity derivative activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure to the unhedged portion. Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to settle all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could result in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. Additionally, because we primarily use derivative financial instruments relating to the future price of crude oil to mitigate our exposure to NGL price risk, the volatility or our future cash flows and net income may increase if there is a change in the pricing relationship between crude oil and NGLs. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the downside volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct 32 Table of Contents is involved. For further information about our risk management policies and procedures, please read Note 7 of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our policy. We conduct risk management activities but we may not accurately predict future commodity price fluctuations and therefore expose us to financial risks and reduce our opportunity to benefit from price increases. We evaluate our exposure to commodity price risk from an overall portfolio basis. We have discretion in determining whether and how to manage the commodity price risk associated with our physical and derivative positions. To the extent that we do not manage the commodity price risk relating to a position that is subject to commodity price risk, and commodity prices move adversely, we could suffer losses. Such losses could be substantial, and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, managing the commodity risk may actually reduce our opportunity to benefit from increases in the market or spot prices. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress currently is considering broad financial regulatory reform legislation that among other things would impose comprehensive regulation on the OTC derivatives marketplace and could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. The financial regulatory reform bill adopted by the House of Representatives on December 11, 2009, would subject swap dealers and "major swap participants" to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants. For these purposes, a major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a "substantial" net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the U.S. banking system or financial markets. The House-passed bill also would provide the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") with express authority to impose position limits for OTC derivatives related to energy commodities. Separately, in late January, 2010, the CFTC proposed regulations that would impose speculative position limits for certain futures and option contracts in natural gas, crude oil, heating oil, and gasoline. These proposed regulations would make an exemption available for certain bona fide hedging of commercial risks. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress will act on derivatives legislation or the CFTC will finalize its proposed regulations, any laws or regulations that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. A significant decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our gathering systems are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants and our treating and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems. 33 Table of Contents We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. The cost of capital in the current market environment may make it more difficult for producers to finance drilling programs around our systems which could lead to decreased volumes. In addition, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. During 2009, we saw decreases in the prices of natural gas in connection with the prevailing economic uncertainty, and we cannot predict if these prices will recover or continue to decline in the future. Declines in natural gas prices, if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such production activity and ultimately to a decrease in exploration activity. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Alternative financing strategies may not be successful. Periodically, we will consider the use of alternative financing strategies such as joint venture arrangements and the sale of non-strategic assets. Joint venture agreements may not share the risks and rewards of ownership in proportion to the voting interests. Joint venture arrangements may require us to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments and we may have little control over the amount or the timing of these payments and investments. We may not be able to negotiate terms that adequately reimburse us for our costs to fulfill service obligations for those joint ventures where we are the operator. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. We may periodically sell assets or portions of our business. Separating the existing operations from our assets or operations of which we dispose may result in significant expense and accounting charges, disrupt our business or divert management's time and attention. We may not achieve expected cost savings from these dispositions or the proceeds from sales of assets or portions of our business may be lower than the net book value of the assets sold. We may not be relieved of all of our obligations related to the assets or businesses sold. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations, cash flows and our quarterly distribution on our common units. We depend on third parties for the natural gas and refinery off-gas we process, and the NGLs we fractionate at our facilities, and a reduction in these quantities could reduce our revenues and cash flow. Although we obtain our supply of natural gas, refinery off-gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers, a significant portion comes from a limited number of key producers/suppliers who are committed to us under processing contracts. According to these contracts or other supply arrangements, however, the producers are usually under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to our facilities. If these key suppliers, or a significant number of other producers, were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to our systems and facilities for any reason, we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. Because our operating costs are primarily fixed, a reduction in the volumes of natural gas or NGLs delivered to us would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow. 34 Table of Contents Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and inflationary uncertainties, which may delay our construction activities. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. Furthermore, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. The fees charged to third parties under our gathering, processing, transmission, transportation, fractionation and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, or the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees we charge to third parties. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either natural gas, NGLs or crude oil are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to): revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions and mechanical or physical failures of equipment affecting our facilities or facilities of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our financial results would suffer. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The prevailing economic uncertainty may increase this risk. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. We may not be able to retain existing customers, or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines, fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, 35 Table of Contents natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the markets we serve. Our competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, and greater access to natural gas and NGL supplies than we do. Additionally, our customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to us may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using our services. Certain of our competitors may also have advantages in competing for acquisitions, or other new business opportunities, because of their financial resources and synergies in operations. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect our profitability. For more information regarding our competition, please read Item 1. Business—Competition of Part I of this report. Transportation on certain of our pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to out unitholders. Some of our gas, liquids and crude oil transmission operations are subject to rate and service regulations under FERC or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas and oil in interstate commerce, and FERC's regulatory authority includes: facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. FERC's action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, the costs we incur in our operations, the construction of new facilities or our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. Intrastate natural gas pipeline operations and transportation on proprietary natural gas or petroleum products pipelines are generally not subject to regulation by FERC, and the Natural Gas Act, which is referred to as "NGA," specifically exempts some gathering systems. Yet such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. We cannot assure unitholders that FERC will not at some point determine that such gathering and transportation services are within its jurisdiction, and regulate such services. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters as set forth in this report. Some of our natural gas transportation operations are subject to FERC's rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines including a reasonable return. Action by FERC on currently pending matters as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our ability to establish reasonable rates that cover operating costs and allow for a reasonable return. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, one such matter relates to FERC's policy regarding allowances for income taxes in determining a regulated entity's cost of service. In May 2005, FERC adopted a policy statement ("Policy Statement"), stating that it would permit entities owning public utility assets, including oil 36 Table of Contents pipelines, to include an income tax allowance in such utilities' cost-of-service rates to reflect actual or potential tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. Pursuant to the Policy Statement, a tax pass-through entity seeking such an income tax allowance would have to establish that its partners or members have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity's public utility income. This tax allowance policy was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in May 2007. Whether a pipeline's owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. How the Policy Statement is applied in practice to pipelines owned by publicly traded partnerships could impose limits on our ability to include a full income tax allowance in cost of service. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, which may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets or in the expansion of Liberty may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines and other transportation facilities. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines, to connect our existing facilities to new natural gas or natural gas liquids markets, or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. We are indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which certain of our facilities are located and our results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if the indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligation. Columbia Gas is the previous or current owner of the property on which our Kenova, Boldman, Cobb, Kermit and Majorsville facilities are located and is the previous operator of our Boldman and Cobb facilities. Columbia Gas has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying the Boldman, Cobb and Majorsville facilities pursuant to an "Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions" entered into by Columbia Gas and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, in the case of the Boldman facility, an "Agreed Order" with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. Columbia Gas has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify us against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased from Columbia Gas. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if in the future Columbia Gas fails to perform under the indemnification provisions of which we are the beneficiary. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters, and the violation of, or the cost of compliance with, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive and stringent federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, safety and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. Strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability may be incurred without regard to fault, or the legality of the original conduct, under certain of the environmental laws for remediation of contaminated areas, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, 37 Table of Contents the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, and analogous state laws. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our storage, fractionation and processing facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. New, more stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies might adversely influence our products and activities, and existing laws, regulations and policies could be reinterpreted or modified to impose additional requirements or constraints on our operations. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Local governments may adopt more stringent zoning ordinances requiring the relocation of our facilities or increasing our costs to construct and operate our facilities. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations. These could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property, natural resources and persons. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety-related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters, Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters, and Item 1. Business—Pipeline Safety Regulations, each as set forth in this report. The adoption of legislation by Congress or states, or additional regulations by the EPA, to control and reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Congress is currently considering legislation to reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the United States. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed such legislation, calling for the establishment of an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce these emissions and requiring covered sources of greenhouse gases to obtain emission allowances based upon their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. Over time the number of the allowances would decline while the cost of such allowances is expected to increase significantly. The Senate is also considering greenhouse gas emission legislation. While the scope and requirements of legislation that might ultimately be enacted is unknown, based upon the legislation that is currently being considered, it is possible that we could be required to purchase allowances or surrender allowances for the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations, from the combustion of fuels that we process, or from the NGLs that we process or hold in inventory even though we are not the ultimate end user of those NGLs. States may also pass legislation to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, and the EPA may adopt regulations controlling the emission of greenhouse gases under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. The imposition of a cap and trade program or other regulations on the emission of greenhouse gases could increase our cost of doing business by increasing our compliance costs, and have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow by reducing the demand for the natural gas and crude oil that we gather and the natural gas and NGLs that we process, which in turn could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For more information regarding greenhouse gas emission and regulation, please read Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters—Air and Greenhouse Gases. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 38 Table of Contents Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in reduced volumes available for us to gather, process and fractionate. Congress is currently considering two companions bills for the "Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act," or "FRAC Act." The bills would repeal an exemption in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ("SWDA") for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process for the completion of natural gas, and to a lesser extent, oil wells in shale formations, and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. If enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes requiring the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities, who would then make such information publicly available. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, various state and local governments are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. The adoption of the FRAC Act or any other federal or state laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase our producers' costs of compliance. This could significantly reduce the volumes that we gather, process and fractionate which could adversely impact our earnings, profitability and cash flows. The amount of gas we process, gather and transmit, or the crude oil we gather and transport, may be reduced if the pipelines to which we deliver the natural gas or crude oil cannot, or will not, accept the gas or crude oil. All of the natural gas we process, gather and transmit is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users. If these pipelines cannot, or will not, accept delivery of the gas due to downstream constraints on the pipeline or changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, we will be forced to limit or stop the flow of gas through our pipelines and processing systems. In addition, interruption of pipeline service upstream of our processing facilities would limit or stop flow through our processing facilities. Likewise, if the pipelines into which we deliver crude oil are interrupted, we will be limited in, or prevented from conducting, our crude oil transportation operations. Any number of factors beyond our control could cause such interruptions or constraints on pipeline service, including necessary and scheduled maintenance, or unexpected damage to the pipeline. Because our revenues and net operating margins depend upon (1) the volumes of natural gas we process, gather and transmit, (2) the throughput of NGLs through our transportation, fractionation and storage facilities and (3) the volume of crude oil we gather and transport, any reduction of volumes could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Interruptions in operations at any of our facilities may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations depend upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, and various means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or our inability to transmit natural gas or NGLs, or to transport crude oil to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, would adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. 39 Table of Contents Operations at our facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within our control, such as: •unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events at our physical plants; •labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; and •a disruption in the supply of crude oil to our crude oil pipeline, natural gas to our processing plants or gathering pipelines, or a disruption in the supply of NGLs to our transportation pipeline and fractionation facility. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses could reduce our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses. An adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets. We may not be able to successfully execute our business plan and may not be able to grow our business, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to successfully operate our business, generate sufficient cash to pay the quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders, and to allow for growth, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Similarly, we may not be able to successfully expand our business through acquiring or growing our assets, because of various factors, including economic and competitive factors beyond our control. If we are unable to grow our business, or execute on our business plan including increasing or maintaining distributions, the market price of the common units is likely to decline. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our industry is subject to numerous operating hazards and risks incidental to processing, transporting, fractionating and storing natural gas and NGLs and to transporting and storing crude oil. These include: •damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods, hurricanes, and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; •inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; •leakage of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; •fires and explosions; and •other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Market conditions could cause certain insurance premiums and deductibles to become unavailable, or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers now require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. 40 Table of Contents Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled staff. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees, including accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Our equity based long-term incentive plans are a significant component of our strategy to retain key employees. Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies or handle complexities related to managing joint ventures depends in part on our ability to retain key management and existing employees at the time of the acquisition. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of the previous generation's experienced workers reaching the age for retirement, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. If we are unable to timely and successfully integrate our future acquisitions, our future financial performance may suffer, and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to integrate our future acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability and anticipated results from such acquisitions. Failure to achieve such planned results could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. The integration of acquisitions with our existing business involves numerous risks, including: •operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional midstream operations into our existing operations; •difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area; •the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; •the diversion of management's attention from other existing business concerns; 41 Table of Contents •the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and •consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities including those under the same stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to releases of pollutants into the environment and environmental protection as are applicable to our existing plants, pipelines and facilities. If so, our operation of these new assets could cause us to incur increased costs to address these liabilities or to attain or maintain compliance with such requirements. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments will subject our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have partial ownership interests in a number of joint venture legal entities, including Liberty, Pioneer, Wirth, and Centrahoma, which could adversely affect our ability to control certain decisions of these entities. In addition, we may be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from the operation of these entities and where we do not have control, we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Our inability, or limited ability, to control certain aspects of management of joint venture legal entities that we have a partial ownership interest in may mean that we will not receive the amount of cash we expect to be distributed to us. In addition, for entities where we have a non-controlling ownership interest such as in Centrahoma we will be unable to control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that we may be required to fund. Specifically, •We may have limited ability to influence certain management decisions with respect to these entities and their subsidiaries, including decisions with respect to incurrence of expenses and distributions to us; •These entities may establish reserves for working capital, capital projects, environmental matters and legal proceedings which would otherwise reduce cash available for distribution to us; •These entities may incur additional indebtedness, and principal and interest made on such indebtedness may reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to us; and •These entities may require us to make additional capital contributions to fund working capital and capital expenditures, our funding of which could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution. All of these things could significantly and adversely impact our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. 42 Table of Contents Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the FASB, the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to the application of GAAP, which periodically is revised and/or expanded. As such, we periodically are required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements, including the recently proposed implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), could change our current application of GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. The potential requirement to convert our financial statements from being prepared in conformity with GAAP to IFRS may strain our resources and increase our annual expenses. As a public entity, the SEC may require in the future that we report our financial results under IFRS instead of GAAP. IFRS is a set of accounting principles that has been gaining acceptance on a worldwide basis. These standards are published by the London-based International Accounting Standards Board and are more focused on objectives and principles and less reliant on detailed rules than GAAP. Today, there remain significant and material differences in several key areas between GAAP and IFRS which would affect us. Additionally, GAAP provides specific guidance in classes of accounting transactions for which equivalent guidance in IFRS does not exist. The adoption of IFRS is highly complex and would have an impact on many aspects and operations of us, including but not limited to financial accounting and reporting systems, internal controls, taxes, borrowing covenants and cash management. It is expected that a significant amount of time, internal and external resources and expenses over a multi-year period would be required for this conversion. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. The General Partner, without your approval, may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with or senior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •the unitholders' proportionate ownership interest will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; •the market price of the common units may decline; and •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Unitholders have less ability to influence management's decisions than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have more limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore a more limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. The amended and restated partnership agreement provides that the General Partner may not withdraw and may not be removed at any time for any reason whatsoever. Furthermore, if any person or group other than the General Partner and its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of any class of units (without the prior approval of the General 43 Table of Contents Partner board), that person or group loses voting rights on all of its units. However, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have the right to annually elect its board of directors. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, unitholders could be held liable for our obligations as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by unitholders as a group to approve certain transactions or amendments to the agreement of limited partnership, or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement was considered participation in the "control" of our business. Unitholders elect the members of the General Partner board, which may be deemed to be participation in the "control" of our business. This could subject unitholders to liability as a general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Tax Risks Related to Owning our Common Units Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation then our cash available for distribution to unitholders could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based on our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Although the proposed legislation would not affect our tax treatment as a partnership as proposed, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be modified or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 44 Table of Contents The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be reduced to reflect the impact of that law on us. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For example, the state of Texas and the state of Michigan have both instituted income-based taxes that result in an entity level tax for us. We are required to pay a Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 1.0% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Additionally, the Michigan Business Tax, which contains two prongs, also imposes a tax on us. The two prongs comprise a tax at the rate of 0.8% of a taxpayer's modified gross receipts and a tax at the rate of 4.95% of the taxpayer's business income. Each of the above mentioned rates also includes a surcharge of 21.99% resulting in overall rates of 0.97% and 6.03%. The imposition of entity level taxes on us by Texas and Michigan and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and the General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A unitholder may be required to pay taxes on his share of our income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, each unitholder will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on his share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to his share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells his common units, he will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in his common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than his tax basis in those common units, even if the price the 45 Table of Contents unitholder receives is less than his original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if the unitholder sells his units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and could be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, the unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Due to a number of factors including our inability to match transferors and transferees of our common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of the units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Although existing publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations, they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the 46 Table of Contents short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the Class A unitholders and our common unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional common units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our common unitholders and the Class A unitholders. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders, which may have an unfavorable effect. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one fiscal year and may result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but would result in our being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. 47 Table of Contents Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where the unitholders do not live as a result of investing in common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business or own property in nine states, most of which, other than Texas, impose personal income taxes. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholder's responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 48 Table of Contents 