ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating us. Risks Inherent in Our Business Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. Subject to the restrictions governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing debt; •impair our ability to obtain additional financings in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general partnership and other purposes; •have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; 35 Table of Contents •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, distributions and other general partnership requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. Furthermore, these consequences could limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand any future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our obligations under our Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and guaranteed by all of our wholly-owned subsidiaries other than MarkWest Liberty Midstream and its subsidiaries, but including our operating company (please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources). Our Credit Facility and our indentures contain covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions, which may limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, make or own certain investments, enter into any swap contracts other than in the ordinary course of business, merge, consolidate or sell assets, incur indebtedness senior to our Credit Facility, make distributions on equity investments and declare or make, directly or indirectly, any distribution on our common units. Any future breach of any of these covenants or our failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of our Credit Facility, or our indentures, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding or proceed against the collateral. Global economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our business and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, consumer interest rates, government spending sequestration, strength of U.S. currency versus other international currencies, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, inflation and foreign currency exchange rates, may generally affect our business. Recessionary economic cycles, higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs and higher tax rates may adversely affect demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Also, any tightening of the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to execute our long-term organic growth projects and meet our obligations to our producer customers and limit our ability to raise capital and, therefore, have an adverse impact on our ability to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations, cash flows and our quarterly distribution on our common units. We may not have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and payment of our expenses to enable us to pay distributions at the current level. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales; •the prices of, level of production of and demand for natural gas and NGLs; 36 Table of Contents •the relative prices of NGLs and crude oil, which impact the effectiveness of our hedging program; •the volumes of natural gas we gather, process and transport; •the level of our operating costs; and •prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution may depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our debt service requirements; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; •restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •restrictions contained in our joint venture agreements; •the level of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures incurred in connection with our enhancement projects; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; and •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our profitability and cash flows are affected by the volatility of NGL product and natural gas prices. We are subject to significant risks associated with frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. The New York Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX") daily settlement price of natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2011 ranged from a high of $4.85 per MMBtu to a low of $2.99 per MMBtu. In 2012, the same index ranged from a high of $3.90 per MMBtu to a low of $1.91 per MMBtu. Also as an example, the composite of the weighted monthly average NGLs price at our Appalachian facilities based on our average NGLs composition in 2011 ranged from a high of approximately $2.18 per gallon to a low of approximately $1.51 per gallon. In 2012, the same composite ranged from a high of approximately $1.73 per gallon to a low of approximately $1.00 per gallon. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •the level of domestic oil, natural gas and NGL production; •demand for natural gas and NGL products in localized markets; •changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications; •imports and exports of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; •seasonality and weather conditions; •the condition of the U.S. economy; 37 Table of Contents •political conditions in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; and •government regulation, legislation and policies. Our net operating margins under various types of commodity-based contracts are directly affected by changes in NGL product prices and natural gas prices and thus are more sensitive to volatility in commodity prices than our fee-based contracts. Additionally, our purchase and resale of gas in the ordinary course of business exposes us to significant risk of volatility in gas prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential existence of a difference in the gas price associated with each transaction. Significant declines in commodity prices could have an adverse impact on cash flows from operations that could result in noncash impairments of long-lived assets, as well as other-than-temporary noncash impairments of our equity method investments. Relative changes in NGL product and natural gas prices may adversely impact our results due to frac spread, natural gas and NGL exposure. Under our keep-whole arrangements, our principal cost is delivering dry gas of an equivalent Btu content to replace Btus extracted from the gas stream in the form of NGLs or consumed as fuel during processing. The spread between the NGL product sales price and the purchase price of natural gas with an equivalent Btu content is called the "frac spread." Generally, the frac spread and, consequently, the net operating margins are positive under these contracts. In the event natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products, the cost of keeping the producer "whole" results in operating losses. Additionally, due to the timing of purchases and sales of natural gas and NGLs, direct exposure to changes in market prices of either gas or NGLs can be created because there is no longer an offsetting purchase or sale that remains exposed to market pricing. Direct exposure may occur naturally as a result of our production processes or we may create exposure through purchases of NGLs or natural gas. Given that we have derivative positions, adverse movement in prices to the positions we have taken may negatively impact results. Our commodity derivative activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements and, as a result, we expect to continue to have some direct commodity price exposure. Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to settle all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could result in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. Alternatively, we may seek to amend the terms of our derivative financial instruments, including the extension of the settlement date of such instruments. Additionally, because we use derivative financial instruments relating to the future price of crude oil to mitigate our exposure to NGL price risk, the volatility of our future cash flows and net income may increase if there is a change in the pricing relationship between crude oil and NGLs. As a result of these factors, our risk management activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the downside volatility of our cash flows and, in certain circumstances, may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our risk management activities are subject to the risks that a 38 Table of Contents counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect and our risk management policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. For further information about our risk management policies and procedures, please read Note 6 of the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We conduct risk management activities but we may not accurately predict future commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, expose us to financial risks and reduce our opportunity to benefit from price increases. We evaluate our exposure to commodity price risk from an overall portfolio basis. We have discretion in determining whether and how to manage the commodity price risk associated with our physical and derivative positions. To the extent that we do not manage the commodity price risk relating to a position that is subject to commodity price risk and commodity prices move adversely, we could suffer losses. Such losses could be substantial and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, managing the commodity risk may actually reduce our opportunity to benefit from increases in the market or spot prices. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and promulgation of regulations thereunder could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage risks associated with our business. Congress has adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the OTC derivatives market and entities. The legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), was signed into law on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC"), the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the legislation. The agencies have taken administrative action to defer the effectiveness of the Dodd-Frank Act as they continue to work on finalizing rules. The CFTC has also proposed a phased implementation in which entities such as the Partnership will have a further deferred compliance date. Among the regulations the CFTC has finalized are regulations establishing criteria for firms that must register as a "Swap Dealer" or "Major Swap Participant" as well as those eligible for the end-user exemption to mandatory clearing, and regulations establishing the definition and criteria for transactions that qualify as a Swaps. Similarly, the capital requirements for Swap Dealers which may have an indirect impact on our cost of hedging is still outstanding. Finally, the CFTC rule setting aggregate federal position limits for futures and option contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil and gasoline and for swaps that are their economic equivalents was vacated by a Federal District Court and is currently on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. While it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC and the SEC will finalize their Dodd-Frank rulemakings, the agencies have issued estimated timeframes which indicate that significant pending elements of the regulations will be addressed in the first half of 2013. The financial reform regulations may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities either through direct regulation of us or indirectly through regulation of our derivative counterparties, although the specifics of those provisions are uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation also requires the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts 39 Table of Contents and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on our income from operations, cash flows and quarterly distribution to common unitholders. A significant decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our gathering systems are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants, treating facilities and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per Mcf, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. In addition, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. During 2011 and 2012, we saw decreases in the prices of natural gas, leading some producers to announce significant reductions to their drilling plans specifically in dry gas areas. If sustained over the long-term, low gas prices could lead to a material reduction in volumes in certain areas of our operations. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. We depend on third parties for the natural gas and refinery off-gas we process, and the NGLs we fractionate at our facilities, and a reduction in these quantities could reduce our revenues and cash flow. Although we obtain our supply of natural gas, refinery off-gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers, a significant portion comes from a limited number of key producers/suppliers who are committed to us under processing contracts. According to these contracts or other supply arrangements, however, the producers are usually under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to our facilities. If these key suppliers, or a significant number of other producers, were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to our systems and facilities for any reason, we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. Because our operating costs are primarily fixed, a reduction in the volumes of natural gas or NGLs delivered to us would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow. 40 Table of Contents Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that natural gas or NGL supplies may not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of, or additions to our existing gathering, treating, processing, and fractionation facilities. The construction of gathering, processing, fractionation and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and inflationary uncertainties, and stringent, lengthy and occasionally unreasonable or impractical federal, state and local permitting, consent, or authorizations requirements, which may cause us to incur additional capital expenditures for meeting certain conditions or requirements or which may delay, interfere with or impair our construction activities. As a result, new facilities may not be constructed as scheduled or as originally designed, which may require redesign and additional equipment, relocations of facilities or rerouting of pipelines, which in turn could subject us to additional capital costs, additional expenses or penalties and may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. In addition, the coordination and monitoring of this diverse group of projects requires skilled and experienced labor. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule, or at all, or at the budgeted cost. In addition, certain agreements with our producer customers contain substantial financial penalties and/or give the producer the right to repurchase certain assets and terminate their contracts with us if construction deadlines are not achieved. Any such penalty or contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations, cash flows and quarterly distribution to common unitholders. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. Our ability to successfully manage these projects depends on obtaining skilled labor, project managers and engineers. Furthermore, we may have only limited natural gas or NGL supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production or satisfy anticipated market demand in a region in which anticipated production growth or market demand does not materialize, the facilities may not operate as planned or may not be used at all. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or NGLs to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. The fees charged to third parties under our gathering, processing, transmission, transportation, fractionation and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, or the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees we charge to third parties. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either natural gas, NGLs or crude oil are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to): revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions and mechanical or physical failures of equipment affecting our facilities or facilities of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, or if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us, or if third parties suspend or terminate their contracts with us, our financial results would suffer. 41 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and derivative counterparties, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers or derivative counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, which risks may increase during periods of economic uncertainty. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. In addition, our risk management activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our risk management policies and procedures are not properly followed. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers or our derivative counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may not be able to retain existing customers, or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines, fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the markets we serve. Our competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, and greater access to natural gas and NGL supplies than we do. Additionally, our customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to us may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using our services. Certain of our competitors may also have advantages in competing for acquisitions, or other new business opportunities, because of their financial resources and synergies in operations. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect our profitability. For more information regarding our competition, please read Item 1. Business—Competition of Part I of this Form 10-K. Transportation on certain of our pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Some of our natural gas, NGL and crude oil pipelines are or may in the future be subject to siting, public necessity, rate and service regulations by FERC or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in interstate commerce and FERC's regulatory authority includes: facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities (for natural gas pipelines only); rates; operations; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. FERC's action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, the costs we incur in our operations, the construction of new facilities or our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. We also own and are constructing pipelines that are carrying or are expected to carry NGLs owned by us across state lines. We currently are, and expect in the future to 42 Table of Contents be, the only shipper on these pipelines and do not operate, and do not expect in the future to operate, these pipelines as a common carrier or hold them out for service to the public. We do not expect third-party entities to seek to utilize our NGL pipelines; therefore, we believe these pipelines would meet the qualifications for a waiver from FERC's applicable reporting and filing requirements. However, we cannot provide assurance that FERC will not at some point find that some or all of such transportation is not exempt from its reporting and filing requirements. Such a finding could subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. In addition, we may also elect to construct in the future NGL common carrier pipelines to carry NGLs of third parties across state lines or otherwise in interstate commerce, and in such event we would be required to comply with FERC rate, operational, reporting and other requirements which may increase our cost of operations. Intrastate natural gas and liquids pipelines, as well as proprietary natural gas and liquids pipelines are generally not subject to regulation by FERC; in addition, the NGA specifically exempts natural gas gathering systems from FERC's jurisdiction. Yet, such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services and that we offer service to our shippers on a not unduly discriminatory basis. We cannot assure unitholders that FERC will not at some point determine that such gathering and/or intrastate and proprietary pipelines are within its jurisdiction, and regulate such services, which could limit the rates that we may charge and increase our costs of operation. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters as set forth in this report. Some of our natural gas, NGL and crude oil transportation operations are subject to FERC's rate-making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines including a reasonable return. Action by FERC could adversely affect our ability to establish reasonable rates that cover operating costs and allow for a reasonable return. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, one such matter relates to FERC's policy regarding allowances for income taxes in determining a regulated entity's cost of service. In May 2005, FERC adopted a policy statement ("Policy Statement"), stating that it would permit entities owning public utility assets, including oil pipelines, to include an income tax allowance in such utilities' cost-of-service rates to reflect actual or potential tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. Pursuant to the Policy Statement, a tax pass-through entity seeking such an income tax allowance would have to establish that its partners or members have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity's public utility income. This tax allowance policy was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in May 2007. Whether a pipeline's owners have actual or potential income tax liability may be reviewed by FERC on a case-by-case basis. How the Policy Statement is applied in practice to pipelines owned by publicly traded partnerships could impose limits on our ability to include a full income tax allowance in cost of service. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or other property rights, or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way or property rights increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, which may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets and the expansion of our gathering, processing and fractionation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way or other property rights prior to constructing new plants, pipelines and other transportation facilities. We may be unable to 43 Table of Contents obtain such rights-of-way or other property rights to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines, to connect our existing or future facilities to new natural gas or natural gas liquids markets, or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or other property rights or to renew existing rights-of-way or property rights. If the cost of obtaining new or renewing existing rights-of-way or other property rights increases, it may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. We are indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which certain of our facilities are located and our results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if an indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligations. Columbia Gas is the previous owner of the property on which our Kenova, Boldman, Cobb, Kermit and Majorsville facilities are located, and is the previous operator of our Boldman and Cobb facilities and current operator of our Kermit facility. Columbia Gas has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying the Boldman, Cobb and Majorsville facilities pursuant to an "Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions" entered into by Columbia Gas and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, in the case of the Boldman facility, an "Agreed Order" with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. Columbia Gas has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify us against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased from Columbia Gas. In addition, Consol Coal is the previous owner and/or operator of certain facilities on the real property on which our rail facility is constructed near Houston, Pennsylvania, and has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities related to AMD with respect to the real property underlying these facilities. Consol Coal has accepted liability and responsibility for, and has agreed to indemnify us against, any environmental liabilities associated with the AMD that are not exacerbated by us in connection with our operations. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if in the future either Columbia Gas or Consol Coal fails to perform under the indemnification provisions of which we are the beneficiary. Our business is subject to laws and regulations with respect to environmental, occupational safety and health, nuisance, zoning, land use and other regulatory matters, and the violation of, or the cost of compliance with, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive and stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, occupational safety and health, nuisance, zoning, land use, and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. Strict joint and several liability may be incurred without regard to fault, or the legality of the original conduct, under certain of the environmental laws for remediation of contaminated areas, including CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our storage, fractionation and processing facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. New, more stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement 44 Table of Contents policies, and new, amended or re-interpreted permitting requirements and processes, might adversely affect our operations and activities, and existing laws, regulations and policies could be reinterpreted or modified to impose additional requirements, delays or constraints on our construction of facilities or on our operations. For example, it is possible that future amendment or re-interpretation of existing air emission laws could impose more stringent permitting or pollution control equipment requirements on us if two or more of our facilities are aggregated into one air emissions permit application, which could increase our costs. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. Local governments may adopt more stringent local permitting and zoning ordinances that impose additional time, place and manner restrictions, delays or constraints on our activities to construct and operate our facilities, require the relocation of our facilities, prevent or restrict the expansion of our facilities, or increase our costs to construct and operate our facilities, including the construction of sound mitigation devices. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations, which could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property, natural resources and persons, environmental remediation and restoration costs, and governmental fines and penalties. Our failure to comply with or alleged non-compliance with environmental or safety-related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit some or all of our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters, Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters, and Item 1. Business—Pipeline Safety Regulations, each as set forth in this report. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs, reduced demand for our services, and adversely affect the cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. As a consequence to an EPA administrative conclusion that GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations establishing PSD construction and Title V operating permit requirements for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. Also, the EPA adopted rules regulating the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural gas processing, fractionation, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, but, in the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States in recent years, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress were to undertake comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which could impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. These requirements or the adoption of any new legislation or regulations that requires additional reporting, monitoring or recordkeeping of GHGs, limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations, or imposes a carbon tax, could adversely affect our operations and materially restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities, could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we process or fractionate. For more information regarding greenhouse gas emission and regulation, please read Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters—Air and Greenhouse Gases. Finally, for a variety of reasons, natural and/or anthropogenic, climate changes could occur which could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an 45 Table of Contents adverse effect on our assets and operations, which in turn could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could result in reduced volumes available for us to gather, process and fractionate. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and NGLs produced by our customers as a result of such operations. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority under the SDWA for certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and, due to public concerns raised regarding potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on groundwater quality, legislation has been introduced before Congress from time to time to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Also, certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. Most notably, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012 and a final report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014, and has also announced the proposed development of effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. Moreover, the White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase our producers' costs of compliance. This could significantly reduce the volumes of natural gas that we gather and process and NGLs that we gather and fractionate which could adversely impact our earnings, profitability and cash flows. The amount of gas we process, gather and transmit, or the NGLs and crude oil we gather and transport, may be reduced if the pipelines to which we deliver the natural gas, NGLs or crude oil cannot, or will not, accept the gas, NGLs or crude oil. All of the natural gas we process, gather and transmit is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users. If these pipelines cannot, or will not, accept delivery of the gas due to downstream constraints on the pipeline, limits on or changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, we may be forced to limit or stop the flow of gas through our pipelines and processing systems. In addition, interruption of pipeline service upstream of our processing facilities would limit or stop flow through our processing and fractionation facilities. Likewise, if the pipelines into which we deliver NGLs or crude oil are interrupted, we may be limited in, or prevented from conducting, our crude oil or NGL transportation operations. Any number of factors beyond our control could cause such interruptions or constraints on pipeline service, including necessary and scheduled maintenance, or unexpected damage to the upstream or downstream pipelines or to ours or other's facilities. Because our revenues and net operating margins depend upon (i) the volumes of natural gas we process, gather and transmit, (ii) the throughput of NGLs through our transportation, fractionation and storage facilities and (iii) the volume of crude oil we gather and transport, any reduction of volumes could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. 46 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. Pursuant to the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, as reauthorized and amended by the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act of 2006 and the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, the DOT through the PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require the following of operators of covered pipelines to: •perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; •identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; •improve data collection, integration and analysis; •repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and •implement preventive and mitigating actions. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing DOT regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with this regulation, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures or repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operations of our gathering and transmission lines. Pipeline safety laws and regulations expanding integrity management programs or requiring the use of certain safety technologies could require us to use more comprehensive and stringent safety controls and subject us to increased capital and operating costs. On January 3, 2012, President Obama signed the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, which, among other things, increases the maximum civil penalty for pipeline safety violations and directs the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate rules or standards relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation and testing to confirm the material strength of pipe operating above 30% of specified minimum yield strength in high consequence areas. The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act also increases the maximum penalty for violation of the pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day of violation and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. In addition, the PHMSA published a final rule in May 2011 expanding pipeline safety requirements including added reporting obligations and integrity management standards to certain rural low-stress hazardous liquid pipelines that were not previously regulated in such manner. Also, in August 2011, the PHMSA published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in which the agency is seeking public comment on a number of changes to regulations governing the safety of gas transmission pipelines, gathering lines and related facilities. The adoption of these and other laws or regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards to gathering lines could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue added capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, all of which could require us to incur increased operational costs that could be significant and have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 47 Table of Contents Interruptions in operations at any of our facilities may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations depend upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, gathering facilities, various means of transportation and marketing services. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or in our ability to transmit natural gas or NGLs, or to transport crude oil to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, or to market the natural gas or NGL's, would adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Operations at our facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within our control, such as: •unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events at our physical plants or facilities; •restrictions imposed by governmental authorities or court proceedings; •labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; •a disruption in the supply of crude oil to our crude oil pipeline, natural gas to our processing plants or gathering pipelines, or a disruption in the supply of NGLs to our NGL pipelines and fractionation facilities; •disruption in our supply of water and other resources necessary to operate our facilities; and •inadequate storage capacity or market access to support production volumes. In addition, the construction and operation of certain of our facilities in our Northeast and Liberty segments may be impacted by surface or subsurface mining operations. One or more third parties may have previously engaged in, or may in the future engage in, subsurface mining operations near or under our facilities, which could cause subsidence or other damage to our facilities or adversely impact our construction activities. In such event, our operations at such facilities may be impaired or interrupted, and we may not be able to recover the costs incurred to repair our facilities from such third parties. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses could reduce our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses. An adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets. We may not be able to successfully execute our business plan and may not be able to grow our business, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to successfully operate our business, generate sufficient cash to pay the quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders and to allow for growth, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Similarly, we may not be able to successfully expand our business through acquiring or growing our assets, because of various factors, including economic and competitive factors beyond our control. If we are unable to grow our business, or execute on our business plan including increasing or maintaining distributions, the market price of the common units is likely to decline. Alternative financing strategies may not be successful. Periodically, we may consider the use of alternative financing strategies such as joint venture arrangements and the sale of non-strategic assets. Joint venture arrangements may not share the risks 48 Table of Contents and rewards of ownership in proportion to the voting interests. Joint venture arrangements may require us to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments and we may have little control over the amount or the timing of these payments and investments. We may not be able to negotiate terms that adequately reimburse us for our costs to fulfill service obligations for those joint ventures where we are the operator. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. We may periodically sell assets or portions of our business. Separating the existing operations from our assets or operations of which we dispose may result in significant expense and accounting charges, disrupt our business or divert management's time and attention. We may not achieve expected cost savings from these dispositions or the proceeds from sales of assets or portions of our business may be lower than the net book value of the assets sold. We may not be relieved of all of our obligations related to the assets or businesses sold. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations, cash flows and our quarterly distribution on our common units. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our industry is subject to numerous operating hazards and risks incidental to processing, transporting, fractionating and storing natural gas and NGLs and to transporting and storing crude oil. These include: •damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; •inadvertent damage from vehicles and construction and farm equipment; •leakage of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons into the environment, including groundwater; •fires and explosions; and •other hazards and conditions, including those associated with various hazardous pollutant emissions, high-sulfur content, or sour gas, and proximity to businesses, homes, or other populated areas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Market conditions could cause certain insurance premiums and deductibles to become unavailable, or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers now require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled staff. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees, including accounting, field operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Our equity based long-term incentive plans are a significant component of our strategy to retain key employees. Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies or handle complexities related to managing joint ventures depends in part on our ability to retain key management and existing employees at the time of the acquisition. 49 Table of Contents A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of the previous generation's experienced workers reaching the age for retirement, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions because we are (i) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (ii) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (iii) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions may be limited. If we are unable to timely and successfully integrate our future acquisitions, our future financial performance may suffer, and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Our future growth may depend in part on our ability to integrate our future acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability and anticipated results from such acquisitions. Failure to achieve such planned results could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. The integration of acquisitions with our existing business involves numerous risks, including: •operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional midstream operations into our existing operations; •difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area; •the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; •the diversion of management's attention from other existing business concerns; •the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and •consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities including those under the same stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to releases of pollutants into the environment and environmental protection as are applicable to our existing plants, pipelines and 50 Table of Contents facilities. If so, our operation of these new assets could cause us to incur increased costs to address these liabilities or to attain or maintain compliance with such requirements. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we may consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We have partial ownership interests in a number of joint venture legal entities, including Pioneer, MarkWest Utica EMG and its subsidiaries, Bright Star, Wirth and Centrahoma, which could adversely affect our ability to control certain decisions of these entities. In addition, we may be unable to control the amount of cash we receive from the operation of these entities and where we do not have control, we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Our inability, or limited ability, to control certain aspects of management of joint venture legal entities that we have a partial ownership interest in may mean that we will not receive the amount of cash we expect to be distributed to us. In addition, for entities where we have a non-controlling ownership interest, such as in Centrahoma, we will be unable to control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that we may be required to fund. Specifically; •we may have limited ability to influence certain management decisions with respect to these entities and their subsidiaries, including decisions with respect to incurrence of expenses and distributions to us; •these entities may establish reserves for working capital, capital projects, environmental matters and legal proceedings, which would otherwise reduce cash available for distribution to us; •these entities may incur additional indebtedness, and principal and interest made on such indebtedness may reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to us; and •these entities may require us to make additional capital contributions to fund working capital and capital expenditures, our funding of which could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution. All of these things could significantly and adversely impact our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Our operations depend on the use of information technology ("IT") systems that could be the target of industrial espionage or cyber attack. Our operations depend on the use of sophisticated information technology systems for the gathering and processing of natural gas, the gathering, fractionation, transportation and marketing of NGLs, and the gathering and transportation of crude oil. Our systems and networks, as well as those of our customers, vendors and counterparties, may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release and misuse of confidential or proprietary information as well as disrupt our operations or damage our facilities or those of third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and increase our operating and capital costs, which could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution. We may be required to incur additional costs to modify or enhance our systems or in order to try to prevent or remediate any such attacks. 51 Table of Contents Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the FASB, the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to the application of GAAP, which periodically is revised and/or expanded. As such, we periodically are required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, including the FASB and the SEC. It is possible that future requirements, including the proposed adoption and implementation of, or convergence with, IFRS, could change our current application of GAAP. Changes in the application of GAAP and the costs of implementing such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute current unitholder ownership interests. The General Partner, without your approval, may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with or senior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •the unitholders' proportionate ownership interest will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; •the market price of the common units may decline; and •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Unitholders have less ability to influence management's decisions than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have more limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore a more limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our amended and restated partnership agreement provides that the General Partner may not withdraw and may not be removed at any time for any reason whatsoever. Furthermore, if any person or group other than the General Partner and its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of any class of units (without the prior approval of the Board), that person or group loses voting rights on all of its units. However, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have the right to annually elect the Board. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, unitholders could be held liable for our obligations as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by unitholders as a group to approve certain transactions or amendments to the agreement of limited partnership, or to take other action under our amended and restated partnership agreement, was considered participation in the "control" of our business. Unitholders elect the members of the Board, which may be deemed to be participation in the "control" of our business. This could subject unitholders to liability as a general partner. 52 Table of Contents In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Tax Risks Related to Owning our Common Units Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a "qualifying income" requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Our amended and restated partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be reduced to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 53 Table of Contents If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation or other fees by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation or fees imposed by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, use, property, ad valorem and other forms of taxation or permit, impact, throughput and miscellaneous other fees. Imposition of any such taxes or fees may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For example, the state of Texas has instituted an income-based tax that results in an entity level tax for us. We are required to pay a Texas franchise tax of 1.0% of our gross margin that is apportioned to Texas in the prior year. The imposition of entity level taxes on us by any other state may reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and the General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A unitholder may be required to pay taxes on his share of our income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, each unitholder will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on his or her share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to his share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells his or her common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in his or her common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than his or her tax basis in those common units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells common units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale. 54 Table of Contents Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts ("IRAs"), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and could be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, the unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of the units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a "securities loan"(e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated, for tax purposes, as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their 55 Table of Contents status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from lending their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the Class A and Class B unitholders and our common unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional common units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our common unitholders, the Class A unitholders and Class B unitholders. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders, which may have an unfavorable effect. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated, for federal income tax purposes, if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one fiscal year and may result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Currently, our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but would result in our being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where the unitholders do not live as a result of investing in common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for 56 Table of Contents failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business or own property in nine states, most of which, other than Texas, impose personal income taxes. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholder's responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 