ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following section describes risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risks. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, or for other reasons, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is substantially dependent on the market for email marketing. More than 90% of our revenue comes from email marketing: from the licensing of software, the sale of support and maintenance contracts related to our software, and from the sale of hosted services. The markets for digital marketing, including email marketing, Web analytics, marketing content management and related services are relatively new and still evolving. There can be no certainty regarding how or whether these markets will develop, or whether they will experience any contractions. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The traditional direct marketing industry has typically generated lower revenues during the summer months and higher revenues during the calendar year-end months. We believe our business is also affected by similar revenue fluctuations, but our limited operating history and the impact of our acquisitions and the integration of those acquisitions make it difficult to predict the magnitude of these effects. Because we may experience these effects, investors (and, possibly, securities analysts) may base their decisions using financial results affected by seasonal fluctuation, which may lead to inaccurate expectations. As a result, our stock price could decline. Our results depend on consumer use of email and the Internet, and the acceptance of online direct marketing as a means to attract and retain new customers. Our current and planned services enable customers to use email, SMS and the Internet to increase revenue and traffic from, and communication with, their online audiences, customers and members. Our ability to serve these customers therefore depends on their audiences continuing to use email, SMS and the Internet as communications media. If consumer adoption of either technology declines, demand for our services may not develop or may decline. Moreover, our services are relatively new, rapidly evolving, and are very different from the traditional methods that many of our customers have historically used to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships. As a result, customers and potential customers may be reluctant to try new technologies and new solutions, and the demand for our services may not develop or may decline, which could cause our stock price to decline. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to market new features and migrate customers to new versions of our system, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. The development of proprietary technology (e.g., Lyris HQ), service enhancements and the migration of customers to new technology entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We might not be successful in marketing and supporting recently released versions of our technology and services on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, even if we develop and release new technology and services, they might not achieve market acceptance, and if we are unable to recover the costs associated with the research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Also, if we are not successful in a smooth migration of customers to new or enhanced technology and services, we could lose customers or fail to maximize profits resulting from customers who continue to use older products [or services] rather than our newest offerings. System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings. We provide email marketing and delivery services to our customers and end-users through our proprietary technology and client management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some customers to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Some factors that could lead to interruptions in customer service include: operator negligence; improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; physical and electronic break-ins; misappropriation; computer viruses and similar events; power loss; computer systems failures; and Internet and telecommunications failures. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. The growth of the email marketing market depends on the continued growth and effectiveness of anti-spam products. Adoption of email as a communications medium depends on the ability to prevent junk mail, or “spam,” from overwhelming a subscriber’s electronic mailbox. In recent years, many companies have evolved to address this issue and filter unwanted messages before they reach customers’ mailboxes. In response, spammers have become more sophisticated and have also begun using junk messages as a means for fraud. Email protection companies in turn have evolved to address this new threat. However, if their products fail to be effective against spam, adoption of email as a communications tool may decline, which would adversely affect the market for our services. The online direct marketing industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our services may decline. The market for online direct marketing is highly competitive and is experiencing rapid technological change. Intense competition may result in price reductions, reduced sales, reduced gross margins and operating margins, and loss of market share. Our principal competitors include providers of online direct marketing solutions such as Responsys, EmailVision, Experian, Silverpop, Bigfoot Interactive, Exact Target, Constant Contact and InfoUSA; Web analytics providers such as Omniture (owned by Adobe), Coremetrics (owned by IBM); and search engine marketing providers such as Acquisio, Clickable, and Marin Software. The loss of a client due to service quality or technology problems could result in reputational harm to us and, as a result, increase the effect of competition and negatively affect our ability to attract new customers. Many of these potential competitors have broad distribution channels and may bundle complementary products or services. Such bundled products include, but are not limited to, Web analytics, data mining, customer relationship management (CRM) systems and professional services. If we are not able to bundle complementary services or continue to expand our distribution capabilities, current and potential customers may choose to work with our competitors and our results may suffer. In addition, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our prices. In the future, we may experience competition from Internet service providers, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. These businesses could develop, market or resell a number of online direct marketing solutions. These potential competitors may also choose to enter, or have already entered, the market for online direct marketing by acquiring one of our existing competitors or by forming strategic alliances with a competitor. As a result of future competition, the demand for our services could substantially decline. Any of these occurrences could harm our ability to compete effectively. 11 Table of Contents We face significant threats from new entrants to our business. Barriers to entry in software markets generally, and the online direct marketing industry in particular, are low. Privately-backed and public companies could choose to enter our market and compete directly with us, or compete indirectly by offering substitute solutions. This could result in decreased demand or pricing for our services, longer sales cycles, or a requirement to make significant incremental investments in research and development to match these entrants’ new technologies, which could in turn cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. We may need to raise additional capital to achieve our business objectives, which could result in dilution to existing investors or increase our debt obligations. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, the ability to expand our client base and the growth of sales and marketing. We have a current account deficit. There is no certainty that we will be able to raise additional equity or other capital, or that the terms on which such capital may be raised will be favorable to us. The terms of any new capital may be superior to, or dilutive to, the existing common shareholders. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, and the trading volume is low. This may limit our ability to raise funds in the public markets. We may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our current credit facility because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and may inhibit our ability to grow. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, making it difficult for us to obtain funding on advantageous terms. We borrowed money to purchase EmailLabs and Hot Banana. Our agreement with Comerica Bank, our senior lender, places certain restrictions on us, including restrictions on our total borrowings, our debt to EBITDA, certain minimum monthly thresholds our EBITDA must exceed, liquidity requirements that our cash balance must meet and our ability to buy additional businesses, among other restrictions. We cannot be certain that we will continue to be in compliance with these requirements. Our failure to meet the financial covenants under existing agreements, would constitute an event of default. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to post collateral to support our obligations, or we may be unable to implement our business development plans, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have acquired a number of our operating businesses since May 2005, and we may continue to expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or through business relationships, all of which may divert our management’s attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire competing or complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to introduce new, and/or expand our existing product and service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Our completed acquisitions and any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, and such challenges may be compounded if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us and management and ownership changes negatively affect customer retention. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will recognize the anticipated benefits of, or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities as a result of, any acquisition, investment or business relationship. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders’ percentage of ownership; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; 12 Table of Contents • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • encounter undiscovered and unknown problems, defects or other issues related to any acquisition that become known to us only after the acquisition; • encounter potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships, or poor acceptance by our customers; • face difficulties caused by entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; • face risks that the acquired products and services may not attract consumers; • encounter difficulties in implementation of uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • fail to achieve anticipated levels of revenue, profitability or productivity; • face poor acceptance of our business model and strategies; and/or • encounter unfavorable reactions from investment banking market analysts who disapprove of our completed acquisitions. We have not realized expected benefits from our acquisitions and we may not realize expected benefits from future acquisitions. While we expect our acquisitions to result in additional net revenues for us, we cannot guarantee that will be the case. With respect to the integration of personnel, despite our efforts to retain the key employees of acquired businesses, we may not be successful, as competition for qualified management and technical employees in our industry is intense. We may also be perceived to have a different corporate culture and, to the extent that our acquisition targets are small privately-held companies, the key employees of the acquired companies might not want to work for a larger, publicly-traded company such as Lyris. In addition, competitors may recruit these key employees. As a result, these key employees could leave with little or no prior notice, which could impede the integration process, limit or eliminate the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with these acquisitions, certain key employees have entered into employment agreements or consulting and non-competition agreements that will restrict their ability to compete with us if they leave or at the conclusion of their consulting term. We cannot assure you of the enforceability of these non-competition agreements or that these employees or consultants will continue to work with us under their employment or consulting agreements. We have already seen significant decreases in revenue and profitability due to the fact that neither ClickTracks nor Hot Banana has generated the revenues anticipated at the time we acquired those companies. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technology or evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. Rapid technological advances, changes in client requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards characterize the market for our products and services. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products and services, or develop entirely new products and services, our products and services may become obsolete, less marketable or less competitive, and our business may be harmed. The ability to add new enhancements, new features and new services depends on several factors, including having sufficient financial, technical and human resources, management focus on these efforts and the ability to complete such work in a timely and cost-effective manner. Failure to produce timely new features in response to or anticipation of customer demands will significantly impair our ability to retain existing revenue and earn new revenue. Changes in technology may also affect consumer preferences, business environment and market share. We may not accurately predict customer or business partner behavior and may not recognize or respond to emerging trends, changing preferences or competitive factors, and, therefore, we may fail to make accurate financial forecasts. Qualifying and supporting our products on multiple computer platforms is time consuming and expensive. We devote time and resources to qualify and support our software products on specific computer platforms, such as Microsoft operating systems. The pace at which existing platforms are being modified and new platforms are being adopted has increased rapidly over time. To the extent that existing platforms are modified or upgraded, or customers adopt new platforms, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources to qualify and support our products on such modified or new platforms, or we could lose customers to competitors who respond more quickly to platform changes, which could add significantly to our development expenses, decrease our revenues and adversely affect our operating results. 13 Table of Contents The majority of our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, and if our customers elect not to renew these agreements, our revenues may decrease. Typically, our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, which are generally one year in length, with no obligation to renew these agreements. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including the services and prices offered by our competitors, new technologies offered by others, consolidation in our customer base or cessation of operations of some of our customers. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products and services and cause us to lose customers. Because our products and services are complex, they may have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them, which could harm our reputation and business. In particular, our anti-spam products may identify some legitimate emails as unwanted or unsolicited spam, or we may not be able to filter out a sufficiently high percentage of unsolicited or unwanted messages sent to the email accounts of customers, which could result in customers’ dissatisfaction. Complex software products like ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Failure to achieve acceptance could results in a delay in, or inability to receive payment. In addition, we may be unable to respond in a prompt manner, or at all, to new methods of attacking a messaging system, such as new spamming techniques, which could result in increased service and warranty costs and related litigation expenses, and potential liability to third parties, any of which could harm our business. We have from time to time found defects in our products, and we may detect errors in existing products in the future. Any such errors, defects or other performance problems could affect the perceived reliability of our products and services and damage our reputation. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew or terminate their subscriptions and we could lose potential future sales. If the delivery of our email messages is limited or blocked, then the amount we may be able to charge customers for producing and sending their campaigns may be reduced and customers may discontinue their use of our services. Internet service providers are able to block messages from reaching their users. Recent releases of Internet service provider software and the implementation of stringent new policies by Internet service providers make it more difficult to deliver emails on behalf of customers. We continually improve our own technology and work with Internet service providers to improve our ability to successfully deliver emails. However, if Internet service providers materially limit or halt the delivery of our emails, or if we fail to deliver emails in such a way as to be compatible with these companies’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the amount we may be able to charge customers for producing and sending their online direct marketing campaigns may be reduced and /or customers may discontinue their use of our services. In addition, the effectiveness of email marketing may decrease as a result of increased customer resistance to email marketing in general. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events and any of these events could result in an interruption of our ability to execute customers’ online direct marketing campaigns. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our data centers and hardware systems. Our data centers and hardware systems are located in California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. Our data centers and hardware systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If any of these events results in damage to our data centers or systems, we may be unable to execute customers’ hosted online direct marketing campaigns until the damage is repaired, and may accordingly lose customers and revenues. In addition, subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may incur substantial costs in repairing any damage. A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause our network or systems to fail or cause our network to lose data. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. We may suddenly require additional bandwidth for which we have not adequately planned. We may secure an extremely large customer or group of customers, or experience demands for growth by an existing customer or set of customers that would require significant system resources. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate such capacity constraints. In addition, we may lose valuable data or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to safeguard the confidential information in our data warehouse, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. We currently store confidential customer information in a secure data warehouse owned by a third party. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to prevent unauthorized individuals from gaining access to this data warehouse. If any compromise or breach of security were to occur, it could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. Any unauthorized access to our servers could result in the misappropriation of confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our services. It is also possible that one of our employees could attempt to misuse confidential customer information, exposing us to liability. In addition, our reputation may be harmed if we lose customer information maintained in our data warehouse due to systems interruptions or other reasons. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property or gain access to third party intellectual property necessary to the operation of our business. Unlicensed copying and use of our intellectual property or illegal infringements of our intellectual property rights represent losses of revenue to us. Our products and services include internally developed technology and intellectual property, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law, as well as contractual obligations. Because these measures only provide limited protection, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation. Further, effective patent, copyright, trade secrets and trademark law may not be available in every country in which our products and services are offered, marketed, distributed, sold or used. We are one of several companies rapidly building new technologies in this industry. Our competitors may develop similar technology independently and design products and services that address this market. It is possible that a third party could be awarded a patent that applies to some portion of our business. If this occurs, we may be required to incur substantial legal fees, cease using the technology or pay significant licensing fees for such use. If a third party asserts that we are infringing our intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. These events could be costly, could divert technical resources and management time, and could potentially result in the invalidation of our intellectual property. Unfavorable litigation outcomes may subject us to substantial damage claims, cause product enhancement delays, and/or require us to cease development of certain products, terminate the use of certain technology, develop alternative technology and/or enter into license agreements to continue using certain technology. Such licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all and could harm our business. Existing lawsuits against others in this industry, as well as any future assertions or prosecutions of claims like these, could also result in an unfavorable outcome for us, potentially leading to proprietary rights infringements claims against us. From time to time, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that we have, in some way, violated the intellectual property rights of others. Because currently pending patent applications are not publicly available for certain periods of time, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a general matter, we do not search patent office files for patents or patent applications that we may possibly infringe. We are aware of several patents for which patent infringement potentially may be asserted against us. As technology evolves and the number of competitors in our industry increases, we may face an increasing number of third party claims related to potential patent infringement. In addition, many of our subscription agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims. These indemnification requirements would increase our costs in the event of an adverse ruling in potential infringement claims. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could result in significant costs and diversion of company resources. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could adversely affect our results of operations, projected growth and revenues. 15 Table of Contents Activities of customers could damage our reputation or give rise to legal claims against us. Customers’ promotion of their products and services may not comply with federal, state and local laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these marketing activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Any claims made against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If we are exposed to this kind of liability, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods, discontinue some services or otherwise expend resources to avoid liability. Our services involve the transmission of information through the Internet. These services could be used to transmit harmful applications, negative messages, and unauthorized reproduction of copyrighted material, inaccurate data or computer viruses to end-users in the course of delivery. Any transmission of this kind could damage our reputation or could give rise to legal claims against us. We could spend a significant amount of time and money defending against these types of potential legal claims. U.S. federal legislation entitled Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails that could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing product, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business. In December 2003, Congress enacted the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, which establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act, particularly Utah and Michigan, which have enacted do-not-email registries listing minors who do not wish to receive unsolicited commercial email that markets certain covered content, such as adult or other harmful products. Some portions of these state laws may not be preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of our customers’ constituents to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing products and services. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our customers or because we are deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which could adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. Moreover, a finding of such a violation may require us to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or increase our operating costs. Our executive officers and other key personnel are critical to our business, and because there is significant competition for personnel in our industry, it may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team, our technical, marketing, sales, customer support and product development personnel. The loss of key individuals or significant numbers of such personnel, or our failure to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to properly manage and sustain our expansion efforts could strain our management and other resources. Our ability to successfully offer services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We may try to rapidly and significantly expand the depth and breadth of our service offerings. Failure to properly manage this expansion could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage expansion, we are required to continually: • improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; • install new management information systems; and • train, motivate, retain and manage our employees. We may be unable to install management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations. 16 Table of Contents Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To continue to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services, and for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price and low trading volume of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates require in order to join us. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our current and future services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or limitations on our ability to use cookies may impede our ability to collect information with our technology and may reduce the value of the data that we do collect. Our technology currently uses cookies, which are small files of information placed on an Internet user’s computer, to collect information about the user’s visits to the websites of our customers. Third-party software and our own technology make it easy for users to block or delete our cookies. Several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, block our cookies by default or prompt users to delete or block our cookies. If a large proportion of users delete or block our cookies, this could undermine the value of the data that we collect for our customers and could negatively impact our ability to deliver accurate reports to our customers, which would harm our business. Changes in Web browsers may also encourage users to block cookies. Microsoft, for example, frequently modifies its Internet Explorer Web browser. Some modifications by Microsoft could substantially impair our ability to use cookies for data collection purposes. If that happens and we are unable to adapt our technology and practices adequately in response to changes in Microsoft’s technology, then the value of our services will be substantially impaired. Additionally, other technologies could be developed that impede the operation of our services. These developments could prevent us from providing our services to our customers or reduce the value of our services. In addition, laws regulating the use of cookies by us and our customers could also prevent us from providing our services to our customers or require us to employ alternative technology. A European Union Directive-implemented by member countries requires us to tell users about cookies placed on their computers, describe how we and our customers will use the information collected and offer users the right to refuse a cookie. Although no European country currently requires consent prior to delivery of a cookie, one or more European countries may do so in the future. If we were required to obtain consent before delivering a cookie or if the use or effectiveness of cookies is limited, we would be required to switch to alternative technologies to collect user profile information, which may not be done on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost or at all. Moreover, laws in the areas of privacy and behavioral tracking are likely to be passed in the future, which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the way in which we can collect, use, store or transmit users’ personal information and deliver products and services. 17 Table of Contents Adverse global economic conditions may continue to decrease our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services. Current adverse global economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our customers. The tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility of in fixed income, credit and equity markets may have negatively affected our customers’ equity values, reduced their cash flow and/or limited their access to debt or equity financing, and therefore may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ spending for our products and services. To the extent our customers reduce their capital expenditure budgets for the remainder of 2010 or beyond, this reduction in spending and decrease in demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We were not profitable in fiscal year 2010 or 2009 and there can be no assurance that we will generate net income in subsequent periods. We experienced net losses of $2.7 million and $19.0 million for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be cash flow positive or generate net income in fiscal year 2011 or future years. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products and services; • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors; • competitive pressures that result in pricing fluctuations; • variations in the timing of orders for and delivery of our products and services; • changes in the mix of products and services that we sell and the resulting impact on our gross margins; and • costs associated with litigation and intellectual property claims. Our operating expenses are based on current expectations of our future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. Customer purchasing behavior can be difficult to forecast, and if we have lower revenues than expected, we may not be able to quickly reduce our expenses in response. Consequently, our operating results for a particular period could be adversely impacted, and this could in turn negatively affect the market price of our common stock. An impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The continued global economic crisis, resulting in, among other things, sharply lower demand for our offerings and disruption of capital and credit markets could significantly affect our market capitalization and result in an impairment loss. We did not recognize a goodwill impairment loss in fiscal year 2010; however, in fiscal year 2009, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $17.0 million. It is possible that further decline of economic conditions would result in additional impairment loss that could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to risks associated with our international operations could unfavorably affect our performance. We derive revenues through our international operations. The success and profitability of our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, tax laws and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which our foreign operations may be denominated. Specifically with currency risks, we do not currently utilize derivative instruments to hedge an exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies and our revenues may decrease as a result of such fluctuations. Our operating results are subject to volatility resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including: • currency movements in which the U.S. dollar becomes stronger with respect to foreign currencies, thereby reducing relative demand for our products and services outside the United States; and • currency movements in which a foreign currency in which we have incurred expenses becomes stronger in relation to the U.S. dollar, thereby raising our expenses for the same level of operating activity. 18 Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to additional risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including, but not limited to: • trade restrictions and duties, including tariffs, quotas, and other barriers; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining trade licenses for certain technology, foreign regulatory requirements, such as safety or radio frequency emissions regulations; • liquidity problems in various foreign markets; • uncertainties and liabilities associated with foreign tax laws; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, including more stringent consumer and data protection laws; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, foreign legislative or regulatory requirements; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations; • potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. law; • political and economic instability; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • other factors beyond our control including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. We are subject to evolving and expensive corporate governance regulations and requirements. Our failure to adequately meet such requirements could harm our business. Because we are a publicly-traded company, we are subject to certain federal, state and other rules and regulations, including those required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these evolving regulations is costly and requires a significant amount of management time and attention, particularly with regard to our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed and continue to review our disclosure and internal controls and procedures for effectiveness, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent fraud or other errors. For example, in July 2010, we were late in filing a Current Report on Form 8-K regarding the voting results of our annual shareholder meeting. Though we believe the effect of the late filing was not material, a failure of our controls and procedures with respect to other issues could cause serious harm to our business. Risks related to Investment in our Common Stock Our executive officers and directors beneficially own a significant amount of our common stock. As of June 30, 2010, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially own or have options exercisable within 60 days to purchase, in the aggregate, approximately 55% of our common stock. The chairman of our board of directors (the “Board”), Mr. William T. Comfort, III, as controlling partner of LDN Stuyvie Partnership, beneficially owns approximately 46% of our common stock. Mr. Comfort’s brother-in-law, James A. Urry, is also on our Board and beneficially owns approximately 6% of our common stock. These stockholders together have, and Mr. Comfort himself has, the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. There is a limited market for our common stock. Our common stock is subject to a limited trading market on the OTC Bulletin Board, and an active trading market may not develop. Moreover, sales of large blocks of stock may have a significantly greater negative impact because of the low trading volume. If a more active public market for our stock is not sustained, it may be difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they are able to sell them. 19 Table of Contents The transfer restrictions on our common stock may delay or prevent takeover bids by third parties and may delay or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to replace or remove the current management. The shares of common stock issued by us in the merger with our former parent company, NAHC, Inc, are subject to transfer restrictions that, in general, prevent any individual stockholder or group of stockholders from acquiring in excess of 5% of our outstanding common stock. The types of acquisition transactions that we may undertake will be limited unless our Board waives the transfer restrictions. The transfer restrictions also may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management because no single stockholder may cast votes for more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock, unless that stockholder held more than 5% of our common stock before the merger or our Board specifically authorizes the acquisition of more than 5% of our common stock. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our Net Operating Loss carryforwards. Our ability to use our potential tax benefits derived from our net operating loss carryforwards in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we generate insufficient taxable income in future years, the net operating losses will not be needed or used and therefore will provide no benefit to us. If we experience a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, we will not be able to realize the benefit of our net operating loss, and tax credit carryforwards. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition to the provisions to protect our NOLs, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent us from having a change of control or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 