ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION; RELIANCE ON AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY COULD SUBJECT OUR BUSINESS TO NEGATIVE TRENDS OR DEFAULTS ON ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We obtained approximately 50% of our revenue from our twenty-five largest customers in 2007 and 2006. While the individual customer rankings between our top customers often change from time-to-time, we rely upon our relationship with each of these customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Any interruption in the business volume awarded by these customers could materially adversely impact our revenues and resulting profitability. The automotive industry within the U.S. is highly competitive, with increased competition from foreign-based companies. These companies produce automobiles in both the U.S. as well as foreign locations. The Big Three U.S. automakers have seen declining market shares fueling concern among the media and numerous financial analysts over whether they will be able to sufficiently scale their operations to ensure their continuation. In addition to the Big Three automotive manufacturers, our customers include various automotive industry suppliers that have been, and will continue to be, negatively impacted by the changing landscape in the U.S. automotive market. Continuing negative trends or a worsening in the financial condition of the domestic U.S. automotive manufacturers, or within the associated supplier base, could materially adversely impact our company, our revenues, and our results of operations. ECONOMIC RISKS; RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE BUSINESS OF TRANSPORTATION AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT COULD SUBJECT US TO BUSINESS SWINGS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our business is dependent upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. These factors include: capacity swings in the trucking industry, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, interest rates, fuel taxes, government regulations, governmental and law enforcement anti-terrorism actions, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and labor costs. It is difficult at times to attract and retain qualified drivers and independent contract-drivers. Operations also are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries (such as manufacturing, retail and commercial printing) in which we have a significant concentration of customers. Seasonal factors could also adversely affect us. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season and operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to increased operating costs in colder weather and higher fuel consumption as a result of increased idle time. Regional or nationwide fuel shortages could also have adverse effects. DEPENDENCE ON EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BY THIRD PARTIES; RELIANCE ON INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS COULD RESULT IN OUR INABILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES The trucking industry is dependent upon transportation equipment oftentimes provided by independent third parties. Periods of equipment shortages have occurred periodically in the transportation industry, particularly during a strong economy. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment or transportation services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs, our business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected and our customers could seek to have their transportation needs met by other parties on a temporary or permanent basis. NEW TRENDS AND TECHNOLOGY; CONSOLIDATION AMONG CUSTOMERS COULD ELIMINATE CUSTOMERS If, for any reason, our business of providing services ceases to be a preferred method of obtaining these services by our customers, or if new supply-chain or technological methods become available and widely utilized to reduce the need for expedite transportation services, our business could be adversely affected. Moreover, increasing consolidation among customers and the resulting ability of such customers to utilize their size to negotiate lower outsourcing costs has, and may continue in the future to have, a depressing effect on the pricing of third-party logistic services. Consolidation is not limited to traditional customers such as manufacturers, but also includes 10 Table of Contents consolidation of expedite volume by third-party logistics companies, which increasingly control more of the expedite market and influence prices of expedite services through the use of technology such as Internet auctions. INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS DUE TO INCREASED SECURITY MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO TERRORISM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and the ongoing military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat has and may cause significant disruption to commerce. Our business depends on the free flow of products and services through these channels of commerce. In response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation and other services have at times been slowed or stopped altogether. Further delays or stoppages in transportation or other services could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential activities. We may also face interruption of services due to increased security measures in response to terrorism. The U.S. economy in general can be adversely affected by terrorist activities and potential activities. Any economic downturn could adversely impact our results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to grow our business. It is impossible to predict how this may affect our business or the economy in the U.S. and in the world. In the event of further threats or acts of terrorism, our business and operations may be severely and adversely affected. COMPETITION IS INTENSE AND OUR VOLUME OR PROFITS COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT The transportation and logistics services industry is heavily fragmented and intensely competitive and includes numerous regional, inter-regional and national competitors, none of which dominates the market. There are several larger transportation providers with significantly higher capital resources, which could allow that competitor to position their company as a low-cost provider. We often buy and sell transportation services from and too many of our competitors. Increased competition could create downward pressure on freight rates, and continued rate pressure may adversely affect our gross profit and income from operations. REGULATION; WE ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION BEYOND OUR CONTROL, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE WAY IN WHICH WE OPERATE Our operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S. and Canadian agencies. Our drivers and independent contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. and Canadian regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. REVENUE GROWTH MAY SLOW OR CEASE ALTOGETHER, THEREBY HURTING OUR PROFITS We have achieved significant revenue growth on a historical basis within our Express-1 operations. Our Evansville operation has been relatively flat from a revenue growth standpoint and cannot be viewed as a significant source of future company growth. There is no assurance that our revenue growth rate will continue at historical levels or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operating systems to respond to any future growth. Our operating margins could be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. Slower or less profitable growth could adversely affect our stock price. 11 Table of Contents SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION OF THE COMPANY’S CURRENT BUSINESS AND REVENUE MODEL COULD REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE PROFITABLY Our strategy for increasing our revenue and profitability includes continued focus on the expedite transportation market and cultivation of organic growth opportunities. We may experience difficulties and higher than expected expenses in executing our expedite business strategy. We cannot assure that any adjustment or change in the business and revenue model will prove to be successful. ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE ACCRETIVE TO OUR EARNINGS We have made multiple acquisitions since 2001. Accordingly, acquisitions have provided a substantial portion of our historical growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating any future acquisitions. Most of our historical acquisitions have not been successful. If we make acquisitions in the future, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms or successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we fail to do so, or we experience other risks associated with acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. INABILITY TO MANAGE GROWTH AND INTERNAL EXPANSION COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITS Our inability to manage anticipated future growth could hurt the results of operations. Expansion of operations will be required to address anticipated growth of our customer base and market opportunities. Expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Currently, we have a limited number of employees. We will need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a damaging effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. DEPENDENCE ON DRIVERS SUBJECTS US TO WORKFORCE INTERUPTIONS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our driver force is primarily made up of independent contract drivers, with only a handful of company drivers in our Express-1 operations and approximately 25 company drivers in our Evansville location. At times we have experienced substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. In addition, due in part to current economic conditions, including the higher cost of fuel, insurance, and equipment, the available pool of independent contract drivers has been declining. This decline is especially apparent within the fleet of straight trucks, which serve many of the critical needs of the expedite industry. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers, the availability of alternative jobs due to current economic conditions, and intense recruiting competition from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of drivers, who are our principal source of planned fleet expansion and resulting growth. In addition, our industry as a whole suffers from high rates of driver turnover, which requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to maintain our existing fleet. If we are unable to continue to attract a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages or operate with fewer pieces of equipment and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. In addition, the compensation we offer our driver force is subject to market forces, and we may find it necessary to continue to increase their compensation in future periods. Any increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our growth and profitability. DEPENDENCE ON KEY MANAGEMENT; LOSS OF KEY MANAGEMENT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPERATIONS We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, the ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of the business will be weakened. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of the senior management 12 Table of Contents team. The loss of the services of one or more members of the senior management team could have a materially adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the management team has extensive experience within the transportation industry, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely effecting our business operations. In addition to their unique experience, our management team has fostered key relationships with our customers and suppliers. These relationships are especially important to our Company and the loss of these relationships could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. INSURANCE AND CLAIMS EXPENSE MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our future insurance and claims expenses may exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We maintain general liability, auto liability, cargo, physical damage, trailer interchange, inland marine, contents, workers’ compensation, excess auto, general liability and director’s and officer’s insurance policies for certain types of risks. Some of these policies are written with deductibles currently up to $25,000 per occurrence. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses and regularly evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect actual experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses above reserved amounts. Because of our deductibles, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we experience an increase in the frequency and severity of claims for which we maintain higher deductible policies, accruals of significant amounts within a given period, or claims proving to be more severe than originally assessed. We maintain health insurance policies for our employees that have historically provided first-dollar coverage. Going forward, we plan to self-insure our health claims and have those claims administered by a third-party. We plan to purchase stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure on any one claim and aggregate coverage to limit the total claims expense within any one year. There can be no assurance that the levels of specific stop-loss coverage purchased on a claim-by-claim basis or that the specific aggregate loss coverage purchased, will provide a manageable means to control our health costs going forward. We maintain coverage with insurance carriers that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. Insurance carriers recently have been raising premiums for many businesses, including transportation companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to raise our deductibles or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OR AVAILABILITY OF FUEL MAY CHANGE OUR OPERATIONS STRUCTURE AND RESULTING PROFITABILITY We require large amounts of fuel to operate our fleet, and fuel is one of our contractor’s largest operating expenses. Fuel prices fluctuate greatly, and prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to economic, political, and other market factors beyond our control. Most of our customer contracts contain fuel surcharge provisions to mitigate the effects of price increases over base amounts set in the contract. Significant changes in the price or availability of fuel in future periods or significant changes in our ability to mitigate fuel price increases through the use of fuel surcharges, could materially adversely impact our operations, fleet capacity and ability to generate both revenues and profits. NEED FOR SUBSTANTIAL, ADDITIONAL FINANCING MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE, IF NEEDED, AND OUR RESULTS COULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain financing if required to expand our business or that the present funding sources will continue to extend terms under which we can operate efficiently. If we are unable to secure financing under favorable terms, our Company may be negatively affected. There is no assurance that we will continue to be able to maintain financing on acceptable terms. 13 Table of Contents VOLATILITY OF THE MARKET PRICE OF THE COMPANY’S STOCK CAN IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, IF NEEDED, AND IMPACTS OUR COMPENSATION EXPENSE The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: • Changes in earnings estimates and outlook by financial analysts; • Our failure to meet financial analysts’ and investors’ performance expectations; • Changes in market valuations of other transportation and logistics companies; • General market and economic conditions; or • Lower daily trading volume associated with a less followed stock, and the resulting impact on a stock’s liquidity. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could adversely affect the stock price. The stock markets have experienced price and volume volatility that have affected many companies’ stock prices. Stock prices for many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These types of fluctuations may affect the market price of our common stock. As a component of the calculations prescribed for use in the calculation of compensation expense to be recorded in Financial Accounting Standard Statements Number 123R (SFAS 123R), volatility within the price of our common stock can impact the amount of compensation expense recorded within our financial statements. We adopted SFAS 123R for periods beginning January 1, 2006 and accordingly recorded compensation expense based in part upon the relative and historic volatility of our Company’s common stock in the statement of income for periods beginning thereafter. NO DIVIDENDS ANTICIPATED; COULD UNFAVORABLY IMPACT THE VALUE OF OUR STOCK TO INVESTORS We have no immediate plans to pay dividends, and currently plan to retain all future earnings and cash flows for use in the development of our business and to enhance shareholder value through growth and continued focus on increasing profitability. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the near future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 14 Table of Contents 