Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. Colgan’s pro-rate agreements provide that Colgan pays for its own fuel. Fuel prices have recently increased significantly and remain high. For example, the average price paid per gallon increased 29% from the first quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of the same year. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. If fuel prices decline in the future, increased fare competition and lower revenues may offset any potential benefit of lower fuel prices. Our results could be negatively affected by Colgan’s pro-rate agreements. Colgan has revenue-sharing agreements with United, Continental and US Airways. We are now exposed to the fluctuations associated with revenue-sharing agreements for fare competition and passenger volumes. The rise and fall of profits can correspond to seasonality, and operations can be adversely affected by severe weather, levels of travel demand and competition in Colgan’s markets. We will realize increased profits as ticket prices and passenger load factors increase or fuel prices decrease and, correspondingly, realize decreased profits as ticket prices and passenger load factors decrease or fuel prices increase. We may not achieve the potential benefits of the Colgan acquisition. Our achievement of the potential benefits of the Colgan acquisition will depend on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, including improving the pro-rate route profitability, improving the utilization of equipment and facilities, increasing employee productivity and allocating overhead and administrative expenses over a larger platform as we grow Colgan’s fleet with the additional Q400 aircraft. Our initiatives to improve and grow Colgan’s operations may be costly, complex and time-consuming. The Colgan acquisition diversifies our fleet mix with the addition of Colgan's existing turboprop and new Q400 aircraft. This fleet diversification increases the complexity of managing our business. If we are not able to successfully achieve our objectives and manage the diverse fleet, the potential benefits of the Colgan acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or they may take longer to realize than expected. We cannot be certain that the Colgan acquisition will result in combined results of operations and financial condition consistent with our expectations or superior to what Pinnacle or Colgan could have achieved independently. Our capacity purchase agreements with Delta and Continental may not be profitable. During 2007, we entered into new ten-year capacity purchase agreements with Delta and Continental to operate CRJ-900 and Q400 aircraft, respectively. As part of the bidding process to win these contracts, we utilized complex financial models, which included assumptions as to numerous variables. Adding to the complexity is that the agreements required that we purchase the aircraft to be utilized under these agreements. We lack experience managing aircraft ownership, and our assumptions may not be accurate. Consequently, should our actual experience differ from the assumptions we used when modeling the business, the contracts may not be profitable. Our current growth plans include fleet diversification, which increases the complexity of our business and exposes us to risks that could reduce our profitability. We are in the process of acquiring 16 CRJ-900 and 15 Q400 aircraft. Currently, we have agreements to operate all purchased aircraft for Delta and Continental, respectively. If we are incorrect in our assessment of the profitability and feasibility of our growth plans, or if circumstances change in a way that was unforeseen by us, our growth may not be profitable. With the addition of these aircraft, Pinnacle is no longer operating a single fleet type. Since 2003, Pinnacle has operated only CRJ-200 aircraft to take advantage of the efficiencies in employee training, aircraft maintenance, lower spare parts inventory requirements, and simplified aircraft scheduling. Similarly, Colgan has historically operated only Saab and Beech aircraft. As we expand our operations to include additional aircraft types, some of these efficiencies may no longer be realized, which could reduce our profitability. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. All staff comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission were resolved as of the date of this filing. 16 