Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Report, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, have in some cases affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that may appear in this Report or that we have made or will make elsewhere. Risks related to our financial condition We may need to raise additional capital in the foreseeable future and may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us or you or at all. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $6.5 million in cash. Based on current reserves and anticipated cash flow from our operations, we anticipate that the available funds will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures and business expansion for the next twelve months. If we decide to expand our business operations more broadly than currently anticipated or if cash flows from operations are inadequate for our capital needs, we may seek to satisfy our future capital requirements from the sale of our securities in public or private offerings, or through loans from financial institutions or our controlling stockholders. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or on terms satisfactory to us. A lack of funds also may cause us to delay, reduce and/or abandon certain or all aspects of our organic liquid compound fertilizer product research and development programs, close facilities and/or lay-off employees which, in turn, will likely result in decreased sales and profits. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and our stockholders may experience additional dilution. In addition, such equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. This may reduce a stockholder's return on investment or cause a complete loss in the investment. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than the ownership of our subsidiaries Pacific Dragon and Beijing Agritech. We have no current intention of paying dividends. As a holding company, if we decide to pay dividends in the future our ability to do so will depend upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. Our operating subsidiaries may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us due to Chinese law, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. 13 Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will not receive any dividends and will be unable to pay any dividends to our stockholders. Risk related to our business. Our business will be harmed if our major distributors reduce their orders or discontinue doing business with us. As of December 31, 2006, we sell approximately 34.2% of our fertilizer products through ten major distributors, including Liaoning Shenyang Military District Subsidiary Farm, Xinjiang Construction Military Group and Heilongjiang Qiqihaer Agricultural Department. If some or all of these distributors reduce their orders or discontinue doing business with us, we could have difficulties finding new distributors to distribute our products and our revenues and net income could in turn decline considerably. Our reliance on these major distributors could also affect our bargaining power in getting favorable prices for our products. In addition, untimely payment and/or failure to pay by these major distributors would negatively affect our cash flow. We depend heavily on Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, and without his services our prospects would be severely limited. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continuing contribution of Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director. Mr. Chang has extensive experience in the liquid compound fertilizer industry and is directly involved in all of our business operations. Mr. Chang has a 3-year employment agreement with our subsidiary, Pacific Dragon, which expires on January 5, 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain Mr. Chang after the expiration of his employment agreement. If Mr. Chang ceases to be employed by us, we may have difficulty finding a suitable replacement with equal leadership and industry experience, and our business would suffer. We depend heavily on skilled personnel, and any loss of such personnel, or the failure to continue to attract such personnel in the future, could harm our business. The agricultural products business is specialized and requires the employment of personnel with significant scientific and operational experience in the industry. Accordingly, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional management and other key personnel that have the necessary scientific, technical and operational skills and experience with the liquid compound fertilizer industry. These individuals are difficult to find in the PRC and we may not be able to retain such skilled employees. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would damage our business. All of our products are currently manufactured in our factories in Harbin, Beijing, and Anhui Province, China. We currently maintain insurance covering our manufacturing facilities, machinery and other leasehold improvements. However, we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products, which would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. 14 Although we plan to build additional facilities, we have not yet started construction of either facility, and we may not be able to complete such facilities in a timely manner. Even if we are able to complete construction and begin operations at our planned additional facilities, we will remain dependent to a large extent on our Beijing facility, which will produce the syrup concentrates used to manufacture our products at all of our facilities. We currently rely on a small number of third parties to supply the key raw materials we use to produce our products. Our business depends upon the availability of key raw materials, including humic acid, chemical raw materials and plastic goods. We rely on only a few external suppliers for these raw materials. In fiscal year 2006, we purchased approximately 14.8% of our humic acid from Inner-Mongolia Humic Acid Factory, approximately 33.8% of our chemical raw materials from Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Technology Development Co., and approximately 27.1% of our plastic goods from Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company. We have entered into written agreements with all of these suppliers. If any of our major suppliers were to default or become unable to deliver the raw materials in sufficient quantities, we may be unable to purchase these raw materials from alternative sources on the same or similar terms, which could result in a significant increase in our operating costs. In addition, any disruption in the supply of our raw materials could cause delay in the delivery of our products which would be harmful to our sales reputation and business. If we cannot protect the proprietary formula and manufacturing processes for our concentrated organic liquid compound fertilizer it could increase our competition and cause our operating results to suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary formula and manufacturing process for highly concentrated organic liquid compound fertilizer. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary formulas and manufacturing processes. We have not applied for patents for our technology and formulas as we believe an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas and could lead competitors to attempt to copy our products, thereby increasing competition. This could in turn result in a decrease of our market share and hurt our operating results. Our subsidiary Pacific Dragon has entered into a license agreement with Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, under which Mr. Chang granted us an exclusive license to use his know-how in manufacturing organic liquid compound fertilizer on a royalty-free basis. Under the license agreement, Mr. Chang has the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of this technology and is prohibited from freely licensing this technology to any third party or using the technology for his own benefit. In addition, only certain of our key executives have knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Despite these precautions, the legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. If we are not able to fully protect our proprietary trade secrets, if our employees unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential technology to competitors, or if our competitors independently develop similar or superior products, we may lose any competitive advantage that we currently have. If we are forced to take legal action to protect our proprietary formula and processes, we will incur significant expense and further could not guarantee a favorable outcome. In addition, our competitors may counterfeit our products and use our trademark. These counterfeit products could damage our reputation and create confusion for our customers. 15 Certain of our officers and directors' associations with other business enterprises could impede their ability to devote ample time to our business and could pose conflicts of interest. Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, and Ms. Xiaorong Teng, our Chief Operating Officer, serve as the chairman and a director, respectively, of Yinlong Industrial Co. Ltd. These existing responsibilities to another entity could limit the amount of time they can spend on our affairs. Mr. Chang currently spends about 90% of his time on our affairs and about 10% of his time on the affairs of Yinlong. Ms. Teng currently spends about 95% of her time on our affairs and about 5% of her time on the affairs of Yinlong. In addition, in carrying out their responsibilities for both us and Yinlong, Mr. Chang and Ms. Teng could face conflicts of interest from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must also attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls. We are subject to these requirements beginning with this Report. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no positive assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Risks related to our industry Our operating results will suffer if the price of raw materials increases and we cannot pass the increased cost through to our customers. The primary raw materials included in our products are humic acid, chemical raw materials and plastic goods. The prices for these raw materials are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including energy costs, organic chemical feedstock, market demand, and freight costs. The prices for these raw materials may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in these forces. Our operating results may be seriously harmed if we are unable to pass any raw material price increases through to our customers. The nature of the products that we manufacture could expose us to product liability claims. Defects in, or unknown harmful effects caused by, organic and inorganic chemical and elements in our products could subject us to potential product liability claims that our products cause some harm to the human body or to property. We have obtained product liability insurance to cover claims from personal injuries or property damage caused by our products for the period from July 11, 2006 to July 10, 2007. However, such insurance coverage is limited to approximately $500,000 (RMB 4,000,000) and may not be sufficient to cover potential claims. A successful claim against us that is in excess of our insurance coverage could significantly harm our business and financial condition. As of the filing of this Report, no product liability claim has ever been brought against us. 16 Fertilizers pose certain safety risks. The manufacture and use of fertilizers poses certain safety risks and can cause physical injury and sickness. Although we have adopted safety measures in our research, development and manufacturing processes, accidents may still occur. Any accident, either at the manufacturing phase or during the use of our products, may subject us to significant liabilities to persons harmed by these products. If we cannot renew our fertilizer registration certificate, which expires in December 2007, we will be unable to sell some of our products which will cause our sales revenues to significantly decrease. All fertilizers produced in China must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. No fertilizer can be manufactured without such registration. There are two kinds of registrations: interim registration and formal registration. The interim registration is valid for one year and applies to fertilizers in the stages of in-the-field testing and test selling. Fertilizers that have completed in-the-field testing and test selling must obtain formal registration, which is valid for five years, and thereafter must be renewed each five years. We have obtained a Formal Fertilizer Registration Certificate covering all of our fertilizer products from the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. Such certificate was issued on September 3, 2002 and will expire in December 2007. Our belief is that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture generally will grant an application for renewal in the absence of illegal activity by the applicant. However, there is no guarantee that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture will grant renewal of our Formal Fertilizer Registration Certificate. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China which will cause the termination of our commercial operations. Adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for our products. The demand for our organic liquid compound fertilizer products fluctuates significantly with weather conditions, which may delay the application of the fertilizer or render it unnecessary at all. If any natural disasters, such as flood, drought, hail, tornado or earthquake, occur, demands for our products will be reduced. In addition, in some cases, we allow our distributors to purchase our products partially on credit. The distributors, in turn, may sell the fertilizer to farmers on credit. If any natural disaster occurs, reduced crop yields may cause farmers to default on their payments which could harm our cash flow and results of operations. We face competition from numerous fertilizer manufacturers in China and elsewhere. We compete with approximately 300 small-sized, local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. The number of these small companies varies from time to time. While we may have greater resources than our smaller competitors, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and established local distribution channels within a small region. Furthermore, we face competition from international fertilizer producers and traders who import fertilizers into China. These imported products range from fertilizers with single chemical elements, such as urea, phosphate and potash, to standard nitrogen phosphate, potassium compound fertilizers. The quality of the imported products is generally higher and more stable than fertilizers produced in China. While our resources may not be as great as our larger competitors, we believe our product quality, sales network, brand recognition and sales network are superior We will face greater competition as a result of the opening of the Chinese fertilizer market Historically, imported fertilizers have been subject to tariffs, duties and quota imposed by the Chinese government. In connection with China's entry into the World Trade Organization, based on the WTO commitment, from December 11, 2006 China will start to allow foreign companies to sell and distribute fertilizers. As the Chinese fertilizer market starts to gain more market participants, we will face increased competition which may create pricing, supply and demand constraints and cause our profit margins to suffer. 17 Risks related to doing business in China The constantly evolving legal system in China is unpredictable and may afford you and us inadequate legal protections. We conduct most of our business in China, which utilizes a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits, such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the sets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. Our business will suffer if we lose our land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of the PRC, its agencies and collectives. Land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 70 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be transferred upon approval by the land administrative authorities of the PRC (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land transfer fee. We have received the necessary land use right certificate for our primary operating facilities, but we can give no assurance that our land use rights will be renewed on terms favorable to us or renewed at all. Accounting laws in China mandate accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore our financials and their interpretation involve uncertainties. The PRC accounting laws require an annual "statutory audit" to be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and the books of foreign invested enterprises to be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. These Chinese accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Article 14 of the PRC Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities. Noncompliance with such requirements may cause revocation of our business license. The translation of the financial statements from the requirements of the PRC to U.S. GAAP, requires interpretation and exercise of judgment. Changes in China's political and economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on its economic development, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of its legal systems at any time. Changes could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Potential changes, among others, are the following: level of government involvement in the economy; control of foreign exchange; methods of allocating resources; balance of payments position; international trade restrictions; and international conflict. 18 The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership of business enterprises. Our ability to operate profitably in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations, including stricter environmental laws and regulations on the manufacture, storage, use and disposal of fertilizer and/or of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of fertilizer, that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and widely fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006. On September 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or "MOFCOM," together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside of the PRC. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the governmental agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Governmental approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the governmental agencies. Compliance with the regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government now can exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to these new regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or will sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. 19 The new regulations allow PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and the other government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulations also limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulations may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms which satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders' economic interests and we may not be able to negotiate a business combination transaction on terms favorable to our stockholders. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, if we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and the Renminbi has appreciated against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and business, and the price of our common stock, may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Risks related to our common stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile which could result in a complete loss of your investment. Our stock is not widely traded or traded in great volume so the market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; announcements of new products by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; conditions in the fertilizer market; 20 changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in fertilizer production; announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions; additions or departures of key personnel; and potential litigation. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Yu Chang is the beneficiary owner of approximately 56.84% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he possesses significant influence, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. This might result in limitations on, or a decrease in the price of, our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC bulletin board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "CAGC.OB." The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called "penny stocks" to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of March 26, 2007, the closing bid and asked prices for our common stock were $2.83 per share and, therefore, it is designated a "penny stock." Although since February 3, 2005, we have met the net worth exemption from the "penny stock" definition, no assurance can be given that such exemption will be maintained. As a "penny stock," our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the "Penny Stock Rule." This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. Unless exempt, for any transaction involving a penny stock, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in the penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The registrant currently does not have any unresolved comments of issues with the Staff of the Corporation Finance Division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 