Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report, including the financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this Annual Report, before deciding whether to purchase any shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could materially suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. If our eICU Program is not widely accepted, we will be unable to generate significant revenue growth. We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of our eICU Program and associated services, and we expect that we will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, widespread market acceptance of our eICU Program is critical to our future success. However, we are in a new and developing sector of the healthcare information technology industry and our future prospects are difficult to evaluate. Factors that may negatively affect market acceptance of our program and that are beyond our control, include: • reluctance by hospitals to reduce their reliance on traditional ICU practices, monitoring systems and on-site personnel; • inability of hospitals to successfully integrate our eICU Program into an ICU due to lack of on-site physician adoption, including the resulting harm to our reputation; • financial and budget constraints of hospitals; and • the availability, price, performance and reliability of competing products and services; In addition, the price, performance and reliability of our products and services will be key factors for market acceptance of our eICU Program. If we are not successful in achieving and maintaining widespread market acceptance of our eICU Program, we may never become profitable. The loss of our U.S. patent or any significant limitation in its scope could provide less legal protection for our business and products by permitting competitors to more easily enter the market and to utilize methods developed by us. Our issued U.S. patent has been and may in the future be challenged by third parties. One of our competitors, iMDsoft, Ltd., has asked the U.S. Patent Office to declare an interference and revoke our issued U.S. patent, and it has filed a second request with the U.S. Patent Office for a reexamination of all 26 claims of our patent. During the second reexamination proceeding, we amended our patent claims and presented arguments to the U.S. Patent Office, and are awaiting the official office action response from the U.S. Patent Office. In addition, Cerner Corporation has filed a lawsuit against us seeking a declaration that our patent is invalid and unenforceable. We cannot predict the outcome of these or any future proceedings that may challenge our rights in or the validity or enforceability of our patent. The loss of our patent or any significant limitation in the scope of its claims would make it easier for third parties to imitate, copy or reverse engineer the techniques and methods reflected in the claims of our patent. 15 If our products are alleged or found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be involved in costly disputes or disruptions and be required to redesign our products or methods, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. From time to time, third parties may initiate legal proceedings against us, alleging that our products or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. As the number of products in our target market increases and the functionality of these products overlaps, we believe that technology owners, users and other parties may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. If a patent with claims identical or substantially similar to our issued U.S. patent were to be issued to iMDsoft as a result of the interference proceeding in the U.S. Patent Office or as a result of iMDsoft’s second reexamination request, iMDsoft might attempt to bring an infringement claim against us to enforce its patent. Any allegation of infringement against us could be time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management resources, cause product shipment delays, or force us to redesign our products or methods or enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of the allegations. We may not be able to obtain any required royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with our products or technology. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. If we are not successful in defending any allegations of infringement or procuring a royalty or license agreement, we could be required to pay substantial damages and be foreclosed from marketing our current product. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products and we could be liable for damages to our customers. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patents and patent applications, licenses and employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, these protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products and technologies. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require our employees, consultants, contractors and outside collaborators to enter into written nondisclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection to prevent any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and financial condition could suffer materially. Our issued patents or any patents that we may obtain in the future might not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties. We cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or any future patent applications that we might make. In addition, patents may not protect our products and technologies if competitors devise ways of making these or similar products without infringing our patents. Furthermore, even if valid and enforceable patents cover our products and technologies, the patents will provide protection only for a limited period of time. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which we might market our offerings. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and domestic and international mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We have been sued by Cerner Corporation over our U.S. patent. A ruling by the court in favor of Cerner on one or more of its claims could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Cerner Corporation, a supplier of healthcare information technology, including a solution related to the delivery of care to patients in ICUs, has filed a lawsuit against us over our only issued U.S. patent. In this matter, Cerner requests a declaration that, among other things: our patent is invalid and unenforceable; our patent has not been infringed by Cerner; and actions that we have taken have threatened Cerner and its customers with infringement of our patent and constituted unfair competition and tortious interference with Cerner’s customer contracts and expected business. Cerner has also alleged that we have engaged in patent misuse by making statements, assertions and representations that are false, misleading and misrepresent the scope and substance of our patent and that, as a result, our patent is unenforceable. Among other things, Cerner has asked the court for an award of unspecified damages and an injunction preventing us from threatening or initiating infringement litigation under our patent against Cerner. We are unable to predict the amount of monetary damages or other relief the court may award Cerner if the court were to rule in favor of Cerner on one or more of its claims. A significant monetary judgment against us could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. This litigation and any other litigation we may face in the future, whether or not it is ultimately resolved in our favor, could result in a significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our management. We have filed a counterclaim against Cerner alleging that, among other things, they have infringed our patent. If the court issues an injunction against us and we are unsuccessful in the pursuit of our infringement claim against Cerner, we will be unable to use our patent to prevent Cerner from marketing and selling its competing product offerings to our customers and potential customers. If we did not adequately respond to this competition, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Increasing competition for our products and services could make it harder for us to sell our eICU Program. The market for healthcare information technology solutions and services is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. In particular, the healthcare information technology systems market is characterized by frequent software product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards and requirements. Although the market for software products that provide an advanced remote monitoring technology for hospital ICU beds is relatively new and still developing, we face increasing competition from other companies in the healthcare information technology market. Our actual and potential competitors include companies that provide critical care information systems or enterprise clinical and hospital information systems. 16 Many of our actual and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technological and other resources and name recognition than we do and more established distribution networks and relationships with healthcare providers. Because of their greater resources, many of these companies can respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards and changes in customer requirements. These companies may be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, sales and marketing, patent prosecution and litigation and finance capital equipment acquisitions for their customers. Our actual and potential competitors may develop new products, services or technologies that could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. If our actual or potential competitors incorporate a competing product or service into their existing product offerings, the incremental cost to potential customers for that competing product or service may be lower than the price for our program. Because we do not and for the foreseeable future will not have the financial, technological and other resources and marketing, distribution and support capabilities of our actual or potential competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully. If we do not adequately respond to competitive pressures, our business, financial position and operating results may be harmed. If we are required to change the way in which we recognize revenue in the future, our financial results could fluctuate significantly, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. We provide our customers with a perpetual license of our software, clinical and technical implementation services and ongoing support services under a three-year support agreement. We do not yet have objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of each of the elements of our arrangements with our customers, including our ongoing support services. Accordingly, we recognize revenue from customer arrangements ratably over the term of the support agreement. If, in the future, we are able to objectively and reliably determine the fair value of the elements of our customer arrangements, we will begin to recognize all of the revenue from delivered software and implementation services immediately upon customer acceptance. If a significant number of customers whose support agreements are scheduled for renewal do, in fact, renew at a consistent renewal rate with similar terms, we may be able to objectively and reliably determine the fair value of the elements of our customer agreements as early as 2008. Accordingly, our future financial results may vary significantly from our historical financial results. In addition, a change in our revenue recognition policy combined with our lengthy sales cycle may cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. We have a relatively short operating history and a limited number of customers. We are unable to predict whether our customers will renew their support agreements after the initial term, and low renewal rates could adversely affect our revenues and our business. Our support agreements with our customers typically have a term of three years and are subject to renewal. Because of our relatively short operating history and our limited number of customers, the initial term of most of our support agreements has not yet expired. Accordingly, we have limited historical data with respect to renewal rates, including the renewal and non-renewal of support agreements whose initial terms have expired, and are unable to predict the extent to which our customers will renew their support agreements in the future after the expiration of their initial terms. Renewal rates for our support agreements may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of customer satisfaction with our program and our customers’ ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If a significant number of our customers fail to renew their support agreements, our revenues may be harmed and our business may suffer. A downturn or upturn in our sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results because we recognize revenues from license fees and implementation fees ratably over the term of our agreements. We recognize revenues from license fees and implementation fees ratably over the term of our support agreements with our customers, which is typically three years. As a result, most of the revenues that we report in each quarter reflect our recognition of deferred revenues from agreements entered into during previous periods. Because of this revenue recognition policy, a decline in new customer sales or renewals of support agreements in any quarter or series of quarters may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. In addition, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues as of result of entering into new customer agreements in any period because revenues from new customers must be recognized over the term of our support agreements. Our revenues from existing customers may decrease and we may be required to provide refunds to existing customers if we offer lower pricing terms for comparable purchases to another customer. Under most of our existing customer agreements, if we offer a lower price on license fees to new customers making comparable purchases from us, we must offer that same lower price to those existing customers. Some of our existing customer agreements also expressly require us to refund or credit license fees previously paid by the existing customer if we offer a lower price on license fees to new customers making comparable purchases. These pricing terms limit our ability to negotiate discounted license rates to new customers without triggering an obligation to provide the same discount to many of our existing customers who previously entered into agreements for comparable purchases. These pricing terms may decrease the revenue that we receive from our existing customers, limit our potential revenue growth and negatively affect our ability to compete with other companies based on pricing. We expect that we will continue to include these pricing terms in our new customer contracts. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may incur significant operating losses in the future. We had operating income in 2006, but from our inception in March 1998 to 2005 we incurred significant operating losses and we could incur significant operating losses again in the future. Our accumulated deficit was approximately $28.9 million as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase substantially in the future as we expand our sales and marketing activities, increase our product development efforts, hire additional personnel and comply with the requirements related to being a public company. If we cannot increase our revenues enough to offset these expected increased expenses, or the increase in expenses exceeds our expectations, we may have additional operating losses in the future. 17 Defects in or performance problems with our eICU Program could diminish demand for our products and services and harm our reputation. Any errors, defects or other performance problems with our eICU Program could affect critical aspects of patient care. Our program may have errors or defects that customers identify after they begin using it. In that event, our customers may elect not to renew our support agreements after the expiration of their initial terms or delay or withhold payment to us. In addition, because our program depends on the proper functioning of our customers’ hardware and internal network and third-party software products, any associated defects or malfunctions could leave our customers unable to access or use our program or lead to errors. Even though the performance of our customers’ hardware and network connections and third-party software products are outside our control, any associated defects or malfunctions could make our customers less likely to renew their support agreements with us after the expiration of their initial terms, negatively affect patient care, adversely affect future sales of our eICU program and harm our reputation. Product liability claims may require us to pay damages, reduce the demand for our eICU Program and harm our reputation. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims and other adverse effects of product failures. We provide products that, among other things, assist intensivists and nurses in monitoring and making treatment decisions regarding the care given to acutely ill patients. Our customers or their patients may assert claims against us in the future alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect, error or other failure of our products or services. A product liability claim could subject us to significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of the claim. Although we attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors or mistakes, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. For example, we recently were named as a co-defendant in a lawsuit filed against one of our customers and several physicians claiming negligent treatment and care of a patient in the customer’s intensive care unit. We presently are unable to predict the outcome of the claims against us, however, or to quantify any effect that they might have on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, we maintain general liability insurance, including product liability insurance. However, this coverage may not be sufficient for one or more claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. The insurer also could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results. A product liability claim also could harm our reputation, adversely affect future sales of our eICU program and lead to a decline in revenues. Our inability to effectively manage our growth could adversely affect our business and our operating results. We have expanded our operations rapidly in recent years and expect continued growth in our operations. In addition, a component of our growth strategy is to acquire and form strategic partnerships with complementary businesses. We are still in the process of developing and implementing our operating and financial systems, including our internal systems and controls. Our management will be required to devote considerable time to this process, which will reduce the time they will have to implement our business and expansion plans. To manage our business and planned growth effectively, we must successfully develop, implement, maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls, integrate new personnel and businesses and manage expanded operations. Our growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of new services or product enhancements. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. Our inability to successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive products that keep pace with rapidly changing technology, industry standards and customer requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, including developments in required regulatory certifications. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete or noncompetitive and could exert pricing pressures on our existing products. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards and customer requirements and to successfully acquire, develop and introduce new, enhanced and competitive products on a timely basis. We may not have adequate resources available to develop new technologies or products or be able to successfully develop new products or introduce new applications for existing products. Any new products and applications that we develop may not achieve market acceptance and the introduction of new products or technological developments by others may render our products obsolete. In addition, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new and enhanced products or technologies could increase our development expenses. If we fail to develop products that are competitive in technology and price, satisfy certification standards and meet customer needs, our market share will decline materially and our business, revenues, financial condition and operating results would suffer materially. Any loss of the third-party intellectual property and technology licenses on which we rely in providing our eICU Program could result in additional costs or interruptions in the functionality of our products and services. We rely on intellectual property and technology, such as software and content, which we license from third parties and incorporate into our eICU Program. If any of our third-party suppliers were to change product offerings, increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, then we might need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our eICU Program. These alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology of our existing suppliers. Any loss of the right to use any of this intellectual property or technology could result in interruptions in the full functionality of our eICU Program. 18 We are dependent on our senior executive management, and the loss of any member of our senior executive management may prevent us from managing and growing our business effectively. Our future success depends largely on the continued service of our senior executive management, especially Mr. Frank T. Sample, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, Dr. Brian Rosenfeld, our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, and Dr. Michael Breslow, our Executive Vice President, Clinical Research and Development. Other than Mr. Sample, none of our senior executives has an employment agreement. The loss of any member of our senior executive management could materially harm our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. In that event, we might not be able to replace any member of our senior executive management in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. We depend on highly specialized personnel, and the loss or failure to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain these personnel could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future success and the execution of our growth strategy depend on our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel for technical, clinical, management and sales positions within our organization. For example, we must identify experienced candidates for sales positions who can effectively communicate the costs and clinical and information technology benefits of our products and services to our customers. In addition, we rely on software engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing our software solutions. Our potential competitors, employers in other industries, academic institutions and governmental entities and organizations also often seek persons with similar qualifications. Many of these potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need in a timely manner. In addition, to hire, motivate and retain these personnel, we believe we must provide them with a competitive compensation package, which may include stock-based incentives, such as restricted stock or options. Increases in shares available for issuances under our equity incentive plan generally may require stockholder approval, and our stockholders may not approve future increases. Recent changes in the accounting for stock options may cause us to issue fewer stock options and rely more on restricted stock grants instead, which may be less attractive to potential employees. If this occurs, we may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Any efforts we may make in the future to expand our eICU Program beyond the adult ICU market may not yield a sufficient return on our investment. To date, we have focused our business on providing our eICU Program primarily to multi-hospital systems. However, part of our strategy is to evaluate opportunities to offer our eICU Program to hospitals to monitor lower acuity beds, emergency departments, and other special care units. Any efforts we make to expand beyond the adult ICU market may never result in significant revenue growth for us. In addition, our efforts to expand our eICU Program beyond the adult ICU market may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business. We intend to increase sales of our eICU Program to government agencies, which subjects us to risks inherent in government contracts. We intend to increase sales of our eICU Program to healthcare facilities operated by the U.S. federal and state government and government agencies, including by acting as subcontractor under government prime contracts. Traditionally, the opportunities to generate significant profit margins under government contracts are limited. Furthermore, as a party to government contracts, we are subject to complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. In addition, government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints and political considerations. Our future business, revenues and operating results may be adversely affected if levels of government expenditures and authorizations for spending on healthcare information technology decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide products and services. Furthermore, government parties under government contracts, as well as the prime contractor, typically enjoy broad discretion to terminate contracts for their convenience. Changes in government programs, adoption of new laws or regulations and delays or changes in the annual process for appropriating government funding, among other factors, may cause government agencies or prime contractors to reduce purchases under existing contracts, terminate existing contracts for convenience or decline to renew contracts or exercise contract options, any of which could impair our future business, financial position and operating results. As a government contractor, we may be subject to frequent government audits. If any of our costs are found to be unallowable, non-allocable or unreasonable, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed may need to be refunded. These adjustments may materially impair our revenues. If, during the course of an audit, the government discovers any improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil, criminal or administrative penalties. 19 We intend to expand our international sales efforts, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations, and we do not have substantial experience in international markets. We plan to expand sales of our eICU Program in markets outside the United States. We have very limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our program abroad. Expansion of our international operations will require a significant amount of attention from our management and substantial financial resources and will subject us to risks and challenges that we would not otherwise face if we conducted our business only in the United States. The risks and challenges associated with operations outside the United States may include: • localization of our program, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including healthcare, employment, tax, privacy, healthcare information technology and data protection laws and regulations; • laws regulating exports of technology products from the United States and foreign government restrictions on acquisitions of U.S.-origin products; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties. If one or more of these risks materialize in connection with the planned expansion of our international sales and operations, our planned expansion may be unsuccessful and our financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. The long sales cycles for our eICU Program may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly, which may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our eICU Program has a lengthy sales cycle, which is at least nine months and typically takes longer. A customer’s decision to implement our eICU Program involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy product evaluation and qualification process. These sales may be subject to delays based on a customer’s internal procedures for approving large expenditures and other factors beyond our control. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expense and expend significant management efforts during the sales cycle, regardless of whether we make a sale. As a result of the lengthy sales cycles for our eICU Program, it is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which a particular sale may occur. Accordingly, our operating results may vary significantly, which in turn could create volatility in the price of our common stock. Acquisitions and investments could result in integration difficulties, dilution or other adverse financial consequences. We may acquire other businesses that we believe are complementary to our business. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operations or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. The acquired business may never generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Acquisition financing, if needed, may not be available on favorable terms. 20 The requirements related to being a public company will subject us to increased costs and may strain our resources and distract our management. If we do not comply with these requirements, we may be subject to penalties and investors may lose confidence in us. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. These requirements and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and internal controls, as well as on our personnel. Accordingly, our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns. We will be required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will require us to document and possibly make significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting. We may be required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, to incur significant expenses to make such improvements and to hire additional personnel. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and remediation actions required by Section 404 in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission or the NASDAQ Stock Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access the capital markets. In addition, the controls and procedures that we implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we fail to develop and maintain adequate controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Because our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, our stock price may be volatile. The following factors, many of which are outside our control, can cause fluctuations in our operating results and volatility in our stock price: • the size, timing, terms and conditions of orders from our customers; • changes in hospitals’ budgets and procurement policies and priorities, and funding delays; • new competitors and the introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; • expenses incurred in pursuing and closing acquisitions and in follow-up integration efforts; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; • unanticipated delays or problems in releasing new products and services; and • the amount and timing of our investments in research and development activities. The deferral or loss of one or more significant contracts could materially and adversely affect our operating results, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost contracts. Additionally, we base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues. Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results could cause our stock price to decline. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, a period-to-period comparison of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. In any particular quarter or quarters, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and our stock price could decline as a result. We might require additional capital to support our business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the acquisition and integration of additional businesses, enhancing existing products and services, accelerating our research and development efforts and further developing our sales and marketing channels and capabilities. Accordingly, we may need to engage in private or public equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in this offering. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain required financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 21 If we fail to obtain and maintain necessary U.S. FDA clearances for our products and indications or if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, our business would be harmed. Our eICU Program and related products are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and other federal, state and local authorities. These regulations relate to manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution, importing and exporting and shipping of our products. In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, we must first receive either 510(k) clearance or premarket approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Both of these processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from 90 days to over a year from the date of a complete filing, depending on the number of questions the FDA has concerning the submission. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. It generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the premarket approval application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained. The FDA cleared our eICU Program through the 510(k) notification process. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA may not approve or clear indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Indeed, the FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products. Our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. After clearance or approval of our products, we are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA. If we fail to comply with these FDA regulations, our business could suffer. The FDA could object to our post-market activities. We are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including the requirements that our facilities be registered and our devices listed with the agency. We are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. We also are subject to the notices of correction or removal and recall regulations, which require us to report to the FDA about corrections and removals in cases in which the correction or removal was initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDA Act caused by the device that may present a risk to health, and maintain records of other corrections or removals. The FDA closely regulates promotion and advertising and our promotional and advertising activities could come under scrutiny. If the FDA objects to our promotional and advertising activities or finds that we failed to submit reports under the Medical Device Reporting regulations, for example, the FDA may allege our activities resulted in violations. The FDA has broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall, seizure or removal of authority to distribute our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing a request for 510(k) clearance of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, they could harm our business. The FDA could retroactively determine that modifications that we have made to our eICU Program following FDA clearance were improper and require us to stop marketing and recall the modified products. Any modification to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use requires a new 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval. We may be required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data depending on the nature of the changes to our products. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenues and operating results. We have made modifications to our eICU Program in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. We are not required to notify the FDA of modifications to our eICU Program that do not require additional clearances or approvals. However, the FDA may become aware of these modifications in connection with a periodic inspection or a proposed modification that requires additional FDA clearance or approval. If the FDA requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications that we have made, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. In addition, we could be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions authorized by the FDA Act. 22 Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to accurately predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of any changes may be. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be halted and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to these inspections. Our failure to comply with the QSR or to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of or restrictions on our manufacturing operations, delays in approving or clearing a product, a recall or seizure of our products, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We may face additional compliance costs and liability risks under HIPAA. Our eICU Program involves the storage and transmission of patients’ personal information, much of which is subject to regulation under HIPAA. Federal regulations issued in accordance with HIPAA impose national health data standards on healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions, healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA-compliant and non-compliant formats and health plans. Failure to comply with these standards under HIPAA may subject our customers to civil monetary penalties and, in some circumstances, criminal penalties. These HIPAA standards include: • transaction and code set standards that prescribe specific transaction formats and data code sets for specified electronic healthcare transactions; • privacy standards that protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosures of individually identifiable health information; and • data security standards that require covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Under HIPAA, covered entities may be subject to civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100 per violation, capped at a maximum of $25,000 per year for violation of any particular standard. Also, the U.S. Department of Justice may seek to impose criminal penalties for some violations of HIPAA. Criminal penalties under the statute vary depending upon the nature of the violation but could include fines of not more than $250,000 and imprisonment. In addition, criminal penalties could be imposed under other federal statutes. Although we are not directly regulated by HIPAA, our customers are mandated by HIPAA to enter into written agreements with us, known as business associate agreements, that require us to safeguard individually identifiable health information. Business associate agreements typically include: • a description of our permitted uses of individually identifiable health information; • a covenant not to disclose the information other than as permitted under the agreement and to make our subcontractors, if any, subject to the same restrictions; • assurances that appropriate administrative, physical and technical safeguards are in place to prevent misuse of the information; • an obligation to report to our customer any use or disclosure of the information not provided for in the agreement; • a prohibition against our use or disclosure of the information if a similar use or disclosure by our customer would violate the HIPAA standards; • the ability for our customers to terminate the underlying support agreement if we breach a material term of the business associate agreement and are unable to cure the breach; • the requirement to return or destroy all individually identifiable health information at the end of our support agreement; and • access by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to our internal practices, books and records to validate that we are safeguarding individually identifiable health information. We have agreed in many of our customer contracts to indemnify our customers for civil liabilities that they may incur as a result of our breach of the business associate agreement or our HIPAA-related obligations under the customer contract. 23 Legal and industry standards regarding compliance with HIPAA, including procedures and safeguards that companies like ours will be required to implement, are likely to continue to evolve. In addition, the HIPAA security rules allow covered entities a flexible approach in deciding what security measures to use, taking into account the size, complexity and capabilities of the covered entity, the covered entity’s technical infrastructure, hardware, and software security capabilities, the costs of security measures and the probability and criticality of potential risks to electronic individually identifiable health information. Thus the standard for compliance may vary from one customer to another. As a result, we may not be able to adequately address the business risks created by HIPAA and its implementation. Furthermore, we are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA, or the regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA, might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the costs of compliance with HIPAA. We may face compliance costs and liability risks under other privacy protection laws and regulations. Other regions or countries in which we plan to do business also regulate the storage, transfer and disclosure of patient information, which may require us to take different or additional compliance measures that may involve material costs or may otherwise affect our ability to provide our program. We are unable to predict what, if any, the impact the introduction or amendment of privacy laws and regulations outside the United States will have on our compliance costs or our ability to obtain and retain customers outside of the United States. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to patient data, we may face liabilities and our program may be perceived as not being secure, causing customers to curtail or stop using our program, which may lead to a decline in revenues. We are required to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the security of the patient data that we store. These safeguards may fail to ensure security of patient data, thereby subjecting us to liability, including civil monetary penalties and possible criminal penalties. If our security measures are breached, whether as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to patient data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. Our stock price nevertheless may be volatile. The following factors, in addition to the other risks described in this report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • regulatory developments and funding priorities; • market conditions for our products and services in general; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • adoption of industry standards that our products and services do not satisfy; • the loss of any of our key management or technical personnel; • restatements of our financial results and material weaknesses in our internal controls; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • the results of the pending, and any future, intellectual property-related lawsuits, claims or actions involving us; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders. The stock markets generally and the market for technology stocks in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Securities litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and operating results, and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or discontinue coverage of our company, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, or if our performance is not in line with estimates published by those analysts, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. As a newly public company, the analysts who publish information about our common stock have had relatively little experience with our company, which could affect their ability to accurately forecast our results and make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 24 Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our company and could exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, and they may in some instances exercise this influence in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control, could deprive you of the opportunity to receive a premium for your common stock as part of a sale and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from their investment in shares of our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the current members of our board and management. Our corporate charter documents that will be in place upon the completion of this offering will, and provisions of Delaware law to which we are subject, contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our board and management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. Because we are significantly smaller than most of our potential competitors and many of the other companies in our industry, we may be more likely than other companies in our industry to be the target of a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation will allow our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board can determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. As a result, our board of directors could make it difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock, for example by adopting a stockholders’ rights plan. Our certificate of incorporation will also provide that the members of the board are divided into three classes. Each year the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire. Our bylaws will not permit our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the bylaws, only our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the board of directors, President or a majority of the board of directors will be able to call special meetings of stockholders. The staggering of directors’ terms of office and the limitation on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting may make it difficult for stockholders to remove or replace the board of directors should they desire to do so. Since management is appointed by the board of directors, any inability to effect a change in the board may result in the entrenchment of management. The bylaws will also require that stockholders give advance notice to our Secretary of any nominations for director at any stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may delay or prevent changes of control or management, either by third parties or by stockholders seeking to change control or management. Moreover, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 