Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We operate in a continually changing business environment. In this environment, new risks may emerge and already identified risks may vary significantly in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence. Management cannot predict such developments, nor can it assess the impact, if any, on our business of such new risk factors or of events described in any forward-looking statements. We have identified various risks faced by the organization and aligned these risks with appropriate board level oversight. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION 1. Our filing of voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and our ability to successfully emerge as a stronger, more focused company may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties. 14 We are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the filing of voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, which may lead to potential adverse effects on our liquidity, results of operations and business prospects. We cannot make any assurances regarding the outcome of the Chapter 11 proceedings. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings include the following: · our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 cases and the outcomes of Bankruptcy Court rulings in the case in general; · the length of time that we will operate under the Chapter 11 cases and our ability to successfully emerge from Chapter 11; · our ability to develop and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 cases; · our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court and creditor approval of our reorganization plan and the impact of alternative proposals, views and objections of the creditors’ committee and other interested parties, which may make it difficult to develop and consummate a reorganization plan in a timely manner; · risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to (i) terminate or shorten our exclusivity period to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization; (ii) appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or (iii) convert the Chapter 11 cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; · risks associated with third-party motions in the Chapter 11 cases, which may interfere with our reorganization efforts; · the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity throughout the Chapter 11 proceedings; · increased costs related to the Bankruptcy Filing; · our ability to manage contracts that are critical to our operation, to obtain and maintain appropriate terms with customers, suppliers and service providers; and · the outcome of pre-petition claims against us; and our ability to maintain existing customers, vendor relationships and expand our customer base. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, as well as with vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 cases, the ultimate impact of events that occur during the reorganization proceedings on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. If any one or more of these risks materializes, it could affect our ability to continue as a going concern. 2. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our obligations under our debtor-in-possession financing. In addition to standard financing covenants and events of default provided in similar post-petition credit facilities, the DIP Financing also includes requirements relating to (i) certain milestones that must be met relating to the delivery of a six-year business plan; (ii) the filing and confirmation of a plan of reorganization; and (iii) modifications to collective bargaining agreements through a settlement or relief under Section 1113 of the Bankruptcy Code. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the DIP Financing, or our inability to comply with the required milestones in the DIP Financing, when applicable, could result in an event of default under the DIP Financing, subject, in certain cases, to applicable grace and cure periods. If any event of default occurs and we are not able to either cure it or obtain a waiver from Delta, Delta may declare all of our outstanding obligations under the DIP Financing, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and further, Delta may terminate its commitment under the DIP Financing, and if applicable, Delta could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets. This could adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due. 15 3. We have substantial liquidity needs and face liquidity pressure. We have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business and face significant liquidity challenges due to the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry. Accordingly, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents will remain under pressure during 2012 and thereafter. Because substantially all of our assets are encumbered and our DIP Financing contains restrictions against additional borrowing, we believe we will not be able to obtain any material amount of additional debt financing during our Chapter 11 proceedings. A number of other factors, including our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the difficult revenue environment we face, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of funding that might be available to us during, and upon emergence from, our Chapter 11 cases. In addition, the global economic downturn resulted in greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and substantially more limited availability of funding. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurances that we will be able to source capital at acceptable rates and on acceptable terms, if at all, to fund our current operations and our exit from Chapter 11. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations, both currently and upon emergence from Chapter 11. 4. Our initiatives to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful. As we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to reduce our costs during the Chapter 11 proceedings. Our future plan of reorganization will contain initiatives to reduce our costs and increase our revenues. We should, however, note that given the structure and long-term nature of our code-share agreements and our relationships with our partners, it is very difficult to identify and implement significant cost savings initiatives. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and labor negotiations. 5. The amounts we receive under our operating agreements may be less than the corresponding costs we incur. Under our CPAs, our partners bear the risk related to the cost of certain reimbursable expenses that they are contractually required to repay in full to us. With respect to other costs, our code-share partners are obligated to pay to us amounts at predetermined rates based on the level of capacity that we generate for them. If our controllable costs continue to exceed our rate-based revenue, our financial results will continue to be adversely affected. For example, certain CRJ-200 line maintenance expenses are intended to be covered by our rate-based revenue. As our CRJ-200 fleet ages, the maintenance costs required to support the fleet are increasing, which places additional pressure on our profitability. 6. Even if a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could have an adverse affect on our business and financial conditions in ways that we cannot currently predict. While the stability of the U.S. and global economy remains in question, the financial and credit markets remain at risk, which could depress any prospects for sustainable growth in the airline industry in the near future. As a result of the ongoing uncertainty in credit markets, particularly as a result of recent credit rating alerts issued by Standard and Poor's on sovereign debt, our access to capital markets to raise capital may be restricted, which could affect our ability to meet our obligations, could create difficulty in reacting to changing economic and business conditions, and could limit our ability to expand our operations. Additionally, a decline in economic conditions can also impair the ability of our counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us. 7. We are often affected by certain factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, which can affect operating performance and financial results. While a significant portion of revenues earned under our CPAs are rate-based and driven by the block hours we operate, our operating agreements with our partners include incentives and penalties that are based upon operating performance. During periods of adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Such factors can negatively impact our operating performance and preclude us from earning incentives and may result in incurring penalties. 16 RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATING STRATEGY 8. We are highly dependent upon our regional airline services agreements with Delta. We are highly dependent on Delta and United, our largest customers in 2011, which generated approximately 74% and 22%, respectively, of our consolidated regional airline services revenue during the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition, 41 of our 57 CRJ-900 aircraft and our entire fleet of 141 CRJ-200 aircraft are subleased from Delta under leases that terminate if our airline services agreements with Delta terminate. By the end of 2012, 100% of our regional airline services revenue will be generated from Delta, and all of our aircraft will be subleased from Delta. We would be significantly and negatively affected should one of our remaining code-share agreements with Delta be terminated, and we likely would be unable to find an immediate source of revenue or earnings to offset such a loss. We may be unable to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, and any such arrangements we might secure may not be as favorable to us as our current agreements. Operating as an independent airline would be a departure from our business strategy and would require considerable time and resources. Our code-share agreements with our partners include various minimum operating performance requirements, which, if we fail to meet, provide the partner with the ability to terminate the agreement with little or no notice requirement. All of our CPAs with Delta contain cross-default provisions. Therefore, any failure on our part to meet minimum operating performance requirements under any contract will provide Delta the legal right to terminate any or all of our code-share agreements with Delta. Certain conditions that are beyond our control, such as weather, may negatively affect our performance such that we may fall below the minimum operating requirements. For example, in June 2008, Delta gave notice to Pinnacle that it intended to terminate the Pinnacle CRJ-900 DCA, citing failure to meet on-time performance requirements in the CRJ-900 DCA. We disputed Delta’s right to terminate the Pinnacle CRJ-900 DCA, and we subsequently agreed with Delta to continue operating under the Pinnacle CRJ-900 DCA. Any future attempt by Delta to terminate one of our code-share agreements resulting from our failure to meet our minimum operating performance requirements would, if successful, have a material negative impact on our financial performance and liquidity. 9. We are highly dependent upon the services provided by our major airline partners. We are highly dependent upon our partners for the services they provide to support our current operations. For example, we currently use or rely upon Delta’s and United’s systems, facilities, and services to support a significant portion of our operations, including airport and terminal facilities and operations, information technology support, ticketing and reservations, scheduling, dispatching, fuel purchasing, and ground handling. Were we to lose any of our operations with these partners, we would need to replace all of the services mentioned above and make the other arrangements necessary to fly as an independent airline or otherwise find a suitable use for the aircraft. 10. There are long-term risks related to supply and demand of regional aircraft associated with our regional airline services strategy. Many of our major airline partners have publicly indicated in the past that their committed supply of regional airline capacity is larger than they desire due to current market conditions, particularly as it relates to volatile fuel costs. Specifically, they cite an oversupply of 50-seat regional jets under contractual commitments with regional airlines. In addition to reducing the number of 50-seat jets under contract, major airlines have reduced the utilization of regional aircraft, thereby reducing the revenue paid to regional airlines under CPAs. Delta in particular has reduced both the number of 50-seat regional jets within its network and the number of regional airlines with which it contracts. For example, Delta’s utilization of our 50-seat CRJ-200 aircraft has decreased in recent years, which had a negative impact on our regional airline services revenue and profitability. Our CPAs with Delta do not contain a provision for a minimum level of utilization. In an environment where the supply of regional aircraft exceeds the demand from the major airlines, our competitors may price their regional airline products below cost or otherwise compete aggressively to retain business. In addition, regional airlines with more financial resources may make loans or pay financial incentives to retain or increase business with major airlines. For example, in 2009, SkyWest extended to United a secured term loan in the amount of $80 million and a credit facility with a cap in the amount of $49 million in exchange for an extension on the term of some of its regional airline services agreements with United. Regional airlines with more financial resources may also acquire or merge with other regional airlines in an attempt to mitigate any reductions of regional airline services with their major airline partners. 17 We have fewer financial resources than many of our competitors, and therefore we may be at a competitive disadvantage as we compete for new business opportunities. Additionally, Delta may still seek to reduce our level of operations, either through reduced utilization of our fleet or through attempted reductions in the number of aircraft that we operate. 11. We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations, and if our technology fails, our business may be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries’ systems operations control centers, which oversee daily flight operations, are dependent on a number of technology systems to operate effectively. Large scale interruption in technology infrastructure that we depend on, such as power, telecommunications, or the internet, could cause a substantial disruption in our operations, which could lead to poor operating performance, loss of regional airline services revenue, and financial penalties under our operating contracts. In some instances, if the disruption to our operations were severe, our major airline partners could have the right to terminate our operating contracts. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial consequences to our business. 12. The airline industry has recently gone through a period of consolidation and transition; consequently, we have fewer potential partners. Since 1978 and continuing to the present, the airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may undergo additional consolidation in the future. For example, since 2008, significant mergers have been executed between AirTran Airways and Southwest Airlines, Continental and United, and Delta and Northwest Airlines. We, as well as our partners, routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position. Further consolidation could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships. 13. We may be limited from expanding our flying within our partners’ flight systems, and there are constraints on our ability to provide airline services to other airlines. Additional growth opportunities within our partners’ flight systems are limited by various factors. Except as currently contemplated by our existing code-share agreements, we cannot assure that our partners will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. We may not receive additional growth opportunities, or may agree to modifications to our code-share agreements that reduce certain benefits to us in order to obtain additional aircraft, or for other reasons. Furthermore, difficult financial conditions or significant restructurings at Delta may reduce the growth of regional flying within Delta’s flight systems. Given the volatile nature of the airline industry, we believe that some of our competitors may be more inclined to accept reduced margins and less favorable contract terms in order to secure new or additional code-share operations. Even if we are offered growth opportunities by our major partners, those opportunities may involve economic terms or financing commitments that are unacceptable to us. Any one or more of these factors may reduce or eliminate our ability to expand our flight operations with our existing code-share partners. Additionally, even if our partners choose to expand our fleet on terms acceptable to us, they may be allowed at any time to subsequently reduce the scope of our operations, which could result in a reduction in the block hours we operate and/or the number of aircraft covered by our code-share agreements. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional ground and maintenance facilities, including gates, and support equipment, to expand our operations. The failure to obtain the facilities and equipment required would likely impede our efforts to implement our business strategy and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our partners may be restricted in increasing their business with us, due to “scope” clauses in the current collective bargaining agreements with their pilots that restrict the number and size of regional jets that may be operated in their flight systems not flown by their pilots. For example, Delta’s scope limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 76 seats, even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. We cannot assure that these scope clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. 18 Our business model depends on major airlines electing to contract with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Some major airlines, including Delta, American, and Alaska, own their own regional airlines or operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with regional carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Our partners are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. A decision by Delta to phase out code-share relationships and instead operate their own regional jets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Additionally, our code-share agreements limit our ability to provide airline services to other airlines in certain major airport hubs of each of our partners. Due to the fluctuations in our schedules, which are established primarily by our major partners, there may be times that the number of flights we fly to and from a particular airport may exceed the limitations set forth in one or more of our code-share agreements. The breach of those limitations could constitute a breach of the applicable code-share agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. RISKS RELATED TO LABOR 14. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, may directly affect our earnings. Labor costs are not directly reimbursed by any of our code-share partners. Rather, compensation for these costs is intended to be covered by the payments based on pre-set rates for block hours, departures, and fixed costs. Labor costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating costs, ranging from approximately 30% to 35%, and it is estimated that this number will increase to 40% to 45% by 2013. Pressure to increase these costs beyond standard industry wages, and therefore beyond the limits intended to be covered by the fixed payments we receive from our code-share partners, is increased by the high degree of unionization of our workforce. As of December 31, 2011, 71% of our employees were unionized. Increases in our unionized labor costs may potentially result in a material reduction to our earnings, and could affect our future prospects for additional business opportunities. For example, on February 17, 2011, we entered into the ALPA JCBA, which materially increased our pilots’ salaries, wages, and benefits costs. 15. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could result in the termination, or a significant reduction of the benefit, of our code-share agreements. If we are unable to reach collective bargaining agreements upon their initial or amendable dates with any of our unionized work groups in accordance with the Railway Labor Act, we may be subject to work interruptions, work stoppages, or a fleet size reduction. Work stoppages may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements. Several of our code-share agreements contain provisions granting our partners the right to terminate our agreements in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. Additionally, our CRJ-200 ASA contains a provision allowing Delta to reduce the size of our CRJ-200 fleet in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. In connection with our Chapter 11 cases, we will be seeking wage reductions and other concessions from our labor unions in order to ensure the viability of our business. While we hope that consensual agreements can be reached with each of our unions, an inability to reach agreement with union representatives or otherwise gain such concessions would significantly impair our ability to reorganize and successfully emerge from Chapter 11. 16. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, our operating performance and financial results could be harmed. We compete against the other major and regional U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics, and other employee groups essential for providing airlines services. Several of the other airlines offer wage and benefit packages that exceed ours. We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified employees or risk considerable turnover, which could negatively affect our ability to provide a quality product to our customers and therefore negatively affect our relationship with our customers. 19 Similarly, as we focus on integrating our operations, which can place significant strains on an organization, our need increases for qualified pilots, mechanics, and other airline-specific employees. If we are unable to hire, train, and retain qualified pilots, we would be unable to efficiently run our operations and our competitive ability would be impaired. Our business could be harmed and revenue reduced if, due to a shortage of pilots, we could be forced to cancel flights and forego earning incentive-based revenue under our code-share agreements while conversely incurring performance penalties. RISKS RELATED TO SAFETY AND COMPLIANCE 17. Changes in government regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements that involve significant compliance costs. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the DOT, the FAA, and the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) have issued regulations relating to the operation of airlines that have required significant expenditures. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in complying with government regulations. For example, prompted by the February 2009 Colgan Flight 3407 accident near Buffalo, New York, passengers and governmental authorities have raised industry-wide questions about pilot qualifications, training and fatigue. On August 1, 2010, the United States Congress passed into law the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Act of 2010. The law adds new certification requirements for entry-level commercial pilots, requires additional emergency training, improves availability of pilot records through a centralized database, mandates stricter rules to minimize pilot fatigue, and includes other regulatory mandates. 18. Failure to comply with FAA or DOT regulations could result in civil penalties, the grounding of our operations, the revocation of our right to operate, and damage to our reputation with our current code-share partners as well as potential code-share partners, all of which could negatively impact our financial results and our ability to operate as a going concern. Our subsidiaries operate under air carrier certificates issued by the FAA and certificates of convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. FAA regulations are primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance, ground facilities, transportation of hazardous materials, and other technical matters. The FAA may issue fines, suspend or revoke the air carrier certificate of any one of our subsidiaries if we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the certificates. The FAA requires each airline to obtain approval to operate at specific airports using specified equipment. Under FAA regulations and with FAA approval, our subsidiaries have established a maintenance program for each type of aircraft they operate that provides for the ongoing maintenance of these aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we have incurred $1.3 million in expenses associated with FAA inspections. The DOT has established regulations affecting the operations and service of the airlines in many areas, including consumer protection, non-discrimination against disabled passengers, minimum insurance levels, and others. The DOT may alter, amend, modify or suspend our operating certificates if the DOT determines that we are no longer fit to continue operations. Although we believe we are in compliance with all applicable FAA requirements at this time, those requirements change over time, as does the age of our aircraft equipment, requiring ongoing compliance efforts by the Company. 19. We are at risk of adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving our aircraft. While we believe the insurance we carry to cover losses arising from an aircraft crash or other accident is adequate to cover such losses, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate for one of our code-share partners could create a public perception that our aircraft or operations are not safe or reliable. Such a perception could harm our reputation, result in the loss of existing business with our code-share partners, result in an inability to win new business, and harm our profitability. For a description of the Colgan Flight 3407 accident, see Legal Proceedings in Item 3 of this Form 10-K. 20. We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. We are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions in the air. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. There is increasing regulatory focus in North America on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. We continue to follow any developments of the regulatory programs in both the United States and other areas that we operate our business. Climate change-related regulatory activity in future periods may adversely affect our business and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 