Item 1a. Risk Factors Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risks and uncertainties. The factors described below are risks that could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may have a material adverse impact on our future operations. - 19 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Internal Investigation, Restatement, Internal Controls, and Ownership Following the filing of this report, we will remain delayed in our SEC reporting obligations, we cannot assure you when we will complete our remaining SEC filings for periods subsequent to those included in this report, and we are likely to continue to face challenges until we complete these filings and re-list our common stock. Although our internal investigation, revenue recognition review, and related restatement of our financial statements have been completed as discussed under “Explanatory Note”, we continue to face challenges with regard to completing our remaining SEC filings for periods subsequent to those included in this report. We remain delayed with our SEC reporting obligations as of the filing date of this report and we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete our remaining filings for periods subsequent to those included in this report prior to the conclusion of the SEC administrative proceeding to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock described below. Until we complete these remaining filings, we expect to continue to face many of the risks and challenges we have experienced during our extended filing delay period, including: • risk associated with the SEC’s initiation of an administrative proceeding on March 3, 2010 to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act due to our previous failure to file an annual report on either Form 10-K or Form 10-KSB since April 25, 2005 or quarterly reports on either Form 10-Q or Form 10-QSB since December 12, 2005; • continued risk in maintaining compliance with the covenants and other requirements of our credit agreement, which, among other things, makes it an event of default if we do not provide audited financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2010 to our lenders on or before May 31, 2010; • continued concern on the part of customers, partners, investors, and employees about our financial condition and extended filing delay status, including potential loss of business opportunities; • additional significant time and expense required to complete our remaining filings and the process of seeking the re-listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange beyond the very significant time and expense we have already incurred in connection with our internal investigation, restatement, and audits to date; • continued distraction of our senior management team and our board of directors as we work to complete our remaining filings and seek to re-list our common stock; • limitations on our ability to raise capital and make acquisitions; and • general reputational harm as a result of the foregoing. - 20 - Table of Contents Even if we complete our remaining filings for periods subsequent to those included in this report and our common stock is re-listed on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, we cannot assure you that all of the risks and challenges described above will be eliminated. For example, we cannot assure you that lost business opportunities can be recaptured or that general reputational harm will not persist. If we are unable to complete our remaining filings prior to the conclusion of the SEC administrative proceeding to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock described below, are unable to re-list our common stock, or if one or more of the foregoing risks or challenges persist even after we have done so, our business, results of operations, and financial condition are likely to be materially and adversely affected. We have identified various material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which have materially adversely affected our ability to timely and accurately report our results of operations and financial condition. These material weaknesses may not have been fully remediated as of the filing date of this report and we cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. As a result of the circumstances which gave rise to our internal investigation, restatement, and revenue recognition review discussed under “Explanatory Note”, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of January 31, 2008, we had material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and that, as a result, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective at such date. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that creates a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, we believe that we continued to have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting subsequent to January 31, 2008 and that many, if not all, of the material weaknesses identified at January 31, 2008 remained material weaknesses as of January 31, 2009 (for which our assessment has not been completed as of the filing date of this report) and possibly subsequent to that date. See “Controls and Procedures” under Item 9A for a detailed discussion of the material weaknesses identified as of January 31, 2008, possible material weaknesses as of subsequent periods, and related remediation activities. Although we have implemented remedial measures to address all of the identified material weaknesses, our assessment of the impact of these measures has not been completed as of the filing date of this report and we cannot assure you that these measures are adequate. Moreover, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not arise or be identified in the future. As a result, we must continue our remediation activities and must also continue to improve our operational, information technology, and financial systems, infrastructure, procedures, and controls, as well as continue to expand, train, retain, and manage our employee base. Any failure to do so, or any difficulties we encounter during implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in a future restatement of our financial statements, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, or could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. - 21 - Table of Contents The extraordinary processes underlying the preparation of the financial statements contained in this report may not have been adequate and our financial statements remain subject to the risk of future restatement. The completion of our audits for the years ended January 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, the restatement of our financial results for the years ended January 31, 2005 and 2004, and the revenue recognition review undertaken in connection therewith, involved many months of review and analysis, including highly technical analyses of our contracts and business practices, equity-based compensation instruments, tax accounting, and the proper application of SOP 97-2, SOP 81-1, and other accounting rules and pronouncements. The completion of our financial statement audits also followed the completion of an extremely detailed forensic audit as part of our internal investigation. Given the complexity and scope of these exercises, and notwithstanding the very extensive time, effort, and expense that went into them, we cannot assure you that these extraordinary processes were adequate or that additional accounting errors will not come to light in the future in these or other areas. In addition, the relevant accounting rules and pronouncements that were the focus of our restatement and extended audit are subject to ongoing interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the AICPA, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Further, the accounting profession continues to assess these accounting rules and pronouncements with the objective of providing additional guidance on potential interpretations. As a result, ongoing interpretations of these rules and pronouncements could drive unanticipated changes in our accounting practices or financial reporting. We cannot assure you that such unanticipated changes will not arise or that if they do arise that we will be able to timely adapt to them or that we will not experience future reporting delays. If additional accounting errors come to light in areas reviewed as part of our extraordinary processes or otherwise, or if ongoing interpretations of applicable accounting rules and pronouncements result in unanticipated changes in our accounting practices or financial reporting, future restatements of our financial statements may be required. We cannot assure you that our regular financial statement preparation and reporting processes are or will be adequate or that future restatements will not be required. As discussed in the preceding risk factor, the processes underlying the preparation of the financial statements contained in this report were extraordinary. While we expect to continue to rely on these extraordinary processes for a period of time, during the year ending January 31, 2011, we expect to increasingly rely on our regular financial statement preparation and reporting processes. - 22 - Table of Contents While we have significantly changed and enhanced these regular processes (as described elsewhere in this report), as of the filing date of this report, we cannot assure you that previously identified material weaknesses have been fully remediated and we continue to: • make changes to our finance organization; • adopt new accounting and reporting processes and procedures; • enhance our revenue recognition and other existing accounting policies and procedures; • introduce new or enhanced accounting systems and processes; and • improve our internal controls over financial reporting. Many of these changes and enhancements to our regular processes are ongoing as of the filing date of this report and we continue to assimilate the complex and pervasive changes we have already made. We cannot assure you that the changes and enhancements made to date, or those that are still in process, are adequate, will operate as expected, or will be completed in a timely fashion (if still in process). As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional errors, that future financial reports will not contain material misstatements or omissions, that future restatements will not be required, that we will be able to timely complete our remaining SEC filings for periods subsequent to this report, or that we will be able to stay current with our reporting obligations in the future. We cannot assure you that our common stock will be re-listed, or that once re-listed, it will remain listed. As a result of the delay in filing our periodic reports with the SEC, we were unable to comply with the listing standards of NASDAQ and our common stock was suspended from trading effective February 1, 2007 and formally de-listed effective June 4, 2007. We have applied to re-list our common stock with NASDAQ; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock in an expeditious manner or at all. Even if our common stock is re-listed, unless we are able to timely comply with our SEC reporting obligations in the future, our common stock may again be de-listed. If we cannot re-list our common stock or if it is de-listed again in the future, the price of our common stock will likely be adversely affected and there may be a decrease in the liquidity of our common stock. - 23 - Table of Contents The circumstances which gave rise to our extended filing delay and restatement continue to create the risk of litigation against us, which could be expensive and could damage our business. Although Comverse and its affiliates have been named in a number of class action or shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to Comverse’s internal investigation and restatement, no such actions relating to our investigation, restatement, or extended filing delay have been brought against us to date. However, companies that have undertaken internal reviews and investigations or restatements face greater risk of litigation or other actions and there can be no assurance that such a suit or action relating to our internal investigation, restatement, or extended filing delay will not be initiated against us or our current or former officers, directors, or other personnel in the future. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future become subject to litigation or threatened litigation from current or former personnel as a result of our suspension of option exercises during our extended filing delay period, the expiration of equity awards during such period, or other employment-related matters relating to our internal investigation, restatement, or extended filing delay. Any such litigation or action may be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Any such litigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and may expose us to costly indemnification obligations to current or former officers, directors, or other personnel, regardless of the outcome of such matter. We were the subject of an SEC investigation relating to our reserve and stock option accounting practices, and are the subject of an SEC proceeding relating to our failure to timely file required SEC reports. These government inquiries or any future inquiries to which we may become subject could result in penalties and/or other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Comverse was the subject of an SEC investigation and resulting civil action regarding the improper backdating of stock options and other accounting practices, including the improper establishment, maintenance, and release of reserves, the reclassification of certain expenses, and the calculation of backlog of sales orders. On June 18, 2009, Comverse announced that it had reached a settlement with the SEC on these matters without admitting or denying the allegations of the SEC complaint. Three of Comverse’s former officers, each of whom previously served on our board of directors, have also been charged in civil and criminal actions by the SEC and the Department of Justice in connection with the circumstances surrounding the Comverse Special Committee investigation. Two of these three matters have been settled to date. On July 20, 2006, we announced that, in connection with the SEC investigation into Comverse’s past stock option grants which was in process at that time, we had received a letter requesting that we voluntarily provide to the SEC certain documents and information related to our own stock option grants and practices. We voluntarily responded to this request. On April 9, 2008, as we previously reported, we received a “Wells Notice” from the staff of the SEC arising from the staff’s investigation of our past stock option grant practices and certain unrelated accounting matters. These accounting matters were also the subject of our internal investigation. On March 3, 2010, the SEC filed a settled enforcement action against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York relating to certain of our accounting reserve practices. Without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s Complaint, we consented to the issuance of a Final Judgment permanently enjoining us from violating Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. The settled SEC action did not require us to pay any monetary penalty and sought no relief beyond the entry of a permanent injunction. The SEC’s related press release noted that, in accepting the settlement offer, the SEC considered our remediation and cooperation in the SEC’s investigation. The settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York March 9, 2010. - 24 - Table of Contents On December 23, 2009, as we previously reported, we received an additional “Wells Notice” from the staff of the SEC relating to our failure to timely file our periodic reports under the Exchange Act. On March 3, 2010, the SEC issued an OIP pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act to suspend or revoke the registration of our common stock because of our failure to file an annual report on either Form 10-K or Form 10-KSB since April 25, 2005 or quarterly reports on either Form 10-Q or Form 10-QSB since December 12, 2005. An Administrative Law Judge will consider the evidence in the Section 12(j) proceeding and has been directed in the OIP to issue an initial decision within 120 days of service of the OIP. We are currently evaluating the Section 12(j) OIP, including available procedural remedies and intend to defend against the possible suspension or revocation of the registration of our common stock. We cannot at this time predict the outcome of the Section 12(j) administrative proceedings or of any available appeals that may follow. Similarly, we cannot predict what, if any, impact the outcome of the administrative proceedings may have on our business. If a final order is issued by the SEC suspending or revoking the registration of our common stock, broker-dealers would be prevented from making a market in our common stock in the United States and from any further trading of our common stock on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc. (the “Pink Sheets”) or any other exchange, market, or board in the United States until, in the case of a suspension, the lifting of such suspension, and, in the case of a revocation, we file a new registration with the SEC under the Exchange Act and that registration is made effective. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of Witness, we are subject to an additional SEC inquiry relating to certain of Witness’ stock option grants. On October 27, 2006, Witness received notice from the SEC of an informal non-public inquiry relating to the stock option grant practices of Witness from February 1, 2000 through the date of the notice. On July 12, 2007, we received a copy of the Formal Order of Investigation from the SEC relating to substantially the same matter as the informal inquiry. We and Witness have fully cooperated, and intend to continue to fully cooperate, if called upon to do so, with the SEC regarding this matter. In addition, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Georgia was given access to the documents and information provided by Witness to the SEC. While we have not heard from the SEC or the U.S. Attorney’s office on this matter since June 2008, we have no assurance that one or both will not further pursue the matter. We cannot predict the outcome of any of the foregoing unresolved proceedings or whether we will face additional government inquiries, investigations, or other actions related to these or other matters. An adverse ruling in any SEC enforcement action or other regulatory proceeding could impose upon us fines, penalties, or other remedies, including the suspension or revocation of the registration of our common stock as discussed above, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in defending against an SEC enforcement action or other regulatory proceeding, such an action or proceeding may be time consuming, expensive, and distracting from the conduct of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the event of any such action or proceeding, we may also become subject to costly indemnification obligations to current or former officers, directors, or employees, which may or may not be covered by insurance. - 25 - Table of Contents We may not have sufficient insurance to cover our liability in any future litigation claims either due to coverage limits or as a result of insurance carriers seeking to deny coverage of such claims. We face a variety of litigation-related liability risks, including liability for indemnification of (and advancement of expenses to) current and former directors, officers, and employees under certain circumstances, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements, and/or Delaware law. Prior to the announcement of the Comverse Special Committee investigation, our directors and officers were included in a director and officer liability insurance policy, which covered all directors and officers of Comverse and its subsidiaries, which policy remains the sole source of insurance in connection with the matters related to such investigation. The Comverse insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover any claims against us in connection with such matters and may not be available to us due to the exhaustion of the coverage limits by Comverse in connection with the claims already asserted against Comverse and its personnel. Following the announcement of the Comverse Special Committee investigation, we sought and obtained our own director and officer liability insurance policy for our directors and officers. We cannot assure you that the limits of our directors and officers liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover our potential exposure. In addition, the underwriters of our present coverage or our old shared coverage with Comverse may seek to avoid coverage in certain circumstances based upon the terms of the respective policies, in which case we would have to self-fund any indemnification amounts owed to our directors and officers and bear any other uninsured liabilities. If we do not have sufficient directors and officers insurance coverage under our present or historical insurance policies, or if our insurance underwriters are successful in avoiding coverage, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. - 26 - Table of Contents We have been adversely affected as a result of being a consolidated, controlled subsidiary of Comverse and may continue to be adversely affected in the future. We have been adversely affected as a result of being a consolidated, controlled subsidiary of Comverse and may continue to be adversely affected in the future. These adverse effects arise in part, though not exclusively, from the Comverse Special Committee investigation. Under applicable accounting rules, we were required to record stock-based compensation expenses on our books for Comverse stock options granted to our employees while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Comverse which were found to have been improperly accounted for as part of the Comverse Special Committee investigation. Because we were dependent upon Comverse to provide us with the amount of these charges, we were forced to wait until the conclusion of the Comverse Special Committee investigation to record them, which was the initial reason we were not able to timely complete our required SEC filings. The subsequent expansion of the Comverse Special Committee investigation into other accounting issues further delayed our receipt of the required information. In addition, because of our previous inclusion in Comverse’s consolidated tax group and our related tax sharing agreement with Comverse, as further discussed below, we were also forced to wait for Comverse to substantially complete its analysis of certain tax information, including information related to the net operating loss allocated to us as of our May 2002 IPO, in order to complete the restatement of our historical financial statements, the preparation of our current financial statements and associated audits. In addition to our own internal investigation and revenue recognition review, these investigations and reviews have required significant time, expense, and management distraction, have contributed to a protracted delay in the completion of our SEC filings, and have caused significant concerns on the part of customers, partners, investors, and employees. Future delays at Comverse, if any, may again delay the completion of the preparation of our outstanding or future financial statements, associated audits and SEC filings, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if errors are discovered in the information provided to us by Comverse, we may be required to correct or restate our financial statements. In part because of the issues identified at Comverse and our relationship with Comverse, we have also been subject to enhanced scrutiny by third parties, including customers, prospects, suppliers, service providers, and regulatory authorities, all of which have adversely affected our business, and the cost, duration, and risks associated with our restatement and audits have increased. We may continue to be adversely affected by events at Comverse so long as we remain one of its majority-owned subsidiaries. In particular, Comverse’s strategic plans regarding its assets, including its ownership interest in our stock, may adversely affect our business. Our previous inclusion in Comverse’s consolidated tax group and our related tax sharing agreement with Comverse may expose us to additional tax liabilities. Prior to our IPO in May 2002, we were included in Comverse’s U.S. federal income tax return. Following our IPO, we began filing a separate U.S. federal income tax return for our own consolidated group; however, we remained party to a tax-sharing agreement with Comverse for prior periods. As a result, Comverse may unilaterally make decisions that could impact our liability for income taxes for periods prior to the IPO. Additionally, adjustments to the consolidated group’s tax liability for periods prior to our IPO could affect our NOLs from Comverse and cause us to incur additional tax liability in future periods. The foregoing could result from, among other things, any agreements between Comverse and the Internal Revenue Service relating to issues that could be raised upon examination or the filing of amended federal income tax returns by Comverse on our behalf. In addition, notwithstanding the terms of the tax sharing agreement, federal tax law provides that each member of a consolidated federal income tax group is jointly and severally liable for the group’s entire tax obligation; as a result, under certain circumstances, we could be liable for taxes of other members of the Comverse consolidated group if, for example, federal income tax assessments were not paid. Similar principles apply for certain combined state income tax return filings. - 27 - Table of Contents Comverse can control our business and affairs, including our board of directors. Because Comverse currently holds approximately a 67% ownership position in us (assuming the conversion of all of our preferred stock into common stock), Comverse effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder action, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as financings, equity issuances, or mergers and acquisitions. Our preferred stock, all of which is held by Comverse, entitles it to further control over significant corporate transactions. By virtue of its majority ownership stake, Comverse also has the ability, acting alone, to remove existing directors and/or to elect new directors to our board of directors in order to fill vacancies. At present, Comverse has appointed individuals who are officers or executives of Comverse as six of our eleven directors. These directors have fiduciary duties to both us and Comverse and may become subject to conflicts of interest on certain matters where Comverse’s interest as majority stockholder may not be aligned with the interests of our minority stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the preferred stock, Comverse also has the right to appoint two additional directors to our board of directors under certain circumstances. As a consequence of Comverse’s control over the composition of our board of directors, Comverse can also exert a controlling influence on our management, direction and policies, including the ability to appoint and remove our officers or, subject to the terms of our credit agreement, declare and pay dividends. We may lose business opportunities to Comverse that might otherwise be available to us. In connection with our May 2002 IPO, we entered into a business opportunities agreement with Comverse that addresses certain potential conflicts of interest between Comverse and us. This agreement allocates between Comverse and us opportunities to pursue transactions or matters that, absent such allocation, could constitute corporate opportunities of both companies. In general, we are precluded under this agreement from pursuing opportunities offered to officers or employees of Comverse who may also be our directors, officers, or employees, unless Comverse fails to pursue these opportunities. As a result, we may lose valuable business opportunities to Comverse, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result of the delay in completing our financial statements, we are currently unable to register securities with the SEC, which may adversely affect our ability to raise, and the cost of raising, future capital. As a result of the delay in completing our financial statements, we have been and remain unable to register securities for sale by us or for resale by other security holders, which has adversely affected our ability to raise capital. Additionally, following the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2009 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 30, 2009, July 31, 2009, and October 31, 2009, as discussed under “Explanatory Note”, we will remain ineligible to use Form S-3 to register securities until we have timely filed all periodic reports under the Exchange Act for at least 12 calendar months (or, in the event the registration of our common stock is revoked pursuant to the Section 12(j) proceeding discussed under “Explanatory Note”, until after we have timely filed all required reports for the 12 calendar months following the date on which we once again become subject to the SEC reporting requirements). In the meantime, we would need to use Form S-1 to register securities with the SEC for capital raising transactions or issue such securities in private placements, in either case, increasing the costs of raising capital during that period. - 28 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Competition and Markets Our business is impacted by changes in general economic conditions and information technology spending in particular. Our business is subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Slowdowns or recessions around the world may cause companies and governments to delay, reduce, or even cancel planned spending. In particular, declines in information technology spending have affected the market for our products, especially in industries that are or have experienced significant cost-cutting, such as financial services. Customers or partners who are facing business challenges or liquidity issues are also more likely to delay purchase decisions or cancel orders, as well as to delay or default on payments. If customers or partners significantly reduce their spending with us or significantly delay or fail to make payments to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Moreover, as a result of current economic conditions, like many companies, we have engaged in significant cost-saving measures over the last 24 months. We cannot assure you that these measures will not negatively impact our ability to execute on our objectives and grow in the future, particularly if we are not able to invest in our business as a result of a protracted economic downturn. Intense competition in our markets and competitors with greater resources than us may limit our market share, profitability, and growth. We face aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all of our markets, making it difficult to maintain market share, remain profitable, and grow. Even if we are able to maintain or increase our market share for a particular product, revenue or profitability could decline due to pricing pressures, increased competition from other types of products, or because the product is in a maturing industry. Our competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies, better respond to changes in customer requirements or preferences, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Some of our competitors have, in relation to us, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer standing relationships with customers, greater name recognition, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service, public relations, distribution, or other resources. Some of our competitors are also significantly larger than us and some of these companies have increased their presence in our markets in recent years through internal development, partnerships, and acquisitions. There has also been significant consolidation among our competitors, which has improved the competitive position of several of these companies, and enabled new competitors to emerge in all of our markets. In addition, we may face competition from solutions developed internally by our customers or partners. To the extent we cannot compete effectively, our market share and, therefore, results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. - 29 - Table of Contents Because price is a key consideration for many of our customers, we may have to accept less-favorable payment terms, lower the prices of our products and services, and/or reduce our cost structure, including reducing headcount or investment in research and development, in order to remain competitive. Certain of our competitors have become increasingly aggressive in their pricing strategy, particularly in markets where they are trying to establish a foothold. If we are forced to take these kinds of actions to maintain market share, our revenue and profitability may suffer or we may adversely impact our longer-term ability to execute or compete. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, and if we cannot anticipate and react to such changes our results may suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards can exert pricing pressure on existing products and/or can render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. It is critical to our success that, in all of our markets, we are able to: • anticipate and respond to changes in technology and industry standards; • successfully develop and introduce new, enhanced, and competitive products which meet our customers’ changing needs; and • deliver these new and enhanced products on a timely basis while adhering to our high quality standards. We may not be able to successfully develop new products or introduce new applications for existing products. In addition, new products and applications that we introduce may not achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to introduce new products that address the needs of our customers or that achieve market acceptance, there may be a material adverse impact on our revenue and on our financial results. Because many of our solutions are sophisticated, we must invest greater resources in sales and installation processes with greater risk of loss if we are not successful. In many cases, it is necessary for us to educate our potential customers about the benefits and value of our solutions because many of our solutions are not simple, mass-market items with which customers are already familiar. In addition, many of our solutions are sophisticated and may not be readily usable by customers without our assistance in training, system integration, and configuration. The greater need to work with and educate customers as part of the sales process and, after completion of a sale, during the installation process for many of our products, increases the time and difficulty of completing transactions, makes it more difficult to efficiently deploy limited resources, and creates risk that we will have invested in an opportunity that ultimately does not come to fruition. If we are unable to demonstrate the benefits and value of our solutions to customers and efficiently convert our sales leads into successful sales and installations, our results may be adversely affected. - 30 - Table of Contents Many of our sales are made by competitive bid, which often requires us to expend significant resources, which we may not recoup. Many of our sales, particularly in larger installations, are made by competitive bid. Successfully competing in competitive bidding situations subjects us to risks associated with the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns, as well as making substantial investments of time and money in research and development and marketing activities for contracts that may not be awarded to us. If we do not ultimately win a bid, we may obtain little or no benefit from these expenditures and may not be able to recoup these costs on future projects. Even where we are not involved in a competitive bidding process, due to the intense competition in our markets and increasing customer demand for shorter delivery periods, we must in some cases begin the implementation of a project before the corresponding order has been finalized, increasing the risk that we will have to write off expenses associated with potential orders that do not come to fruition. The nature of our business and our varying business models make it difficult for us to predict our operating results. It is difficult for us to forecast the timing of revenue from product sales because customers often need a significant amount of time to evaluate our products before a purchase, and sales are dependent on budgetary and, in the case of government customers, other bureaucratic processes. The period between initial customer contact and a purchase by a customer may vary from as little as a few weeks to more than a year. During the evaluation period, customers may defer or scale down proposed orders for various reasons, including: • changes in budgets and purchasing priorities; • reductions in need to upgrade existing systems; • deferrals in anticipation of enhanced or new products; • introduction of new products by our competitors; or • lower prices offered by our competitors. In addition, we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from contracts for large system installations with major customers and we continue to emphasize sales to larger customers in our product development and marketing strategies. Contracts for large installations typically involve a lengthy and complex bidding and selection process, and our ability to obtain particular contracts is inherently difficult to predict. The timing and scope of these opportunities are difficult to forecast, and the pricing and margins may vary substantially from transaction to transaction. As a result, our future operating results may be volatile and vary significantly from period to period. - 31 - Table of Contents While we have no single customer that is material to our total revenue, we do have many significant customers in each of our segments and periodically receive multi-million dollar orders. The deferral or loss of one or more significant orders or customers or a delay in an expected implementation of such an order could materially adversely affect our segment operating results in any quarter, particularly if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost sales. In recent years, an increasing percentage of our revenue has come from software sales as compared to hardware sales. This trend has only been amplified with the addition of the Witness business. As with other software-focused companies, this has meant that more of our quarterly business has come in the last few weeks of each quarter. In addition, customers have increasingly been placing orders close to, or even on, the requested delivery date. The trend of shorter periods between order date and delivery date, along with this trend of business moving to the end of the quarter, has further complicated the process of accurately predicting revenue or making sales forecasts on a quarterly basis. Under applicable accounting standards and guidance, revenue for some of our software and hardware transactions is recognized at the time of delivery, while revenue from other software and hardware transactions is required to be deferred over a period of years. To a large extent, this depends on the terms we offer to customers and partners, including terms relating to pricing, future deliverables, and post-contract customer support. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately predict at the outset of a given period how much of our future revenue will be recognized within that period and how much will be required to be deferred over a longer period. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 for additional information. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are, to a large extent, fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our operating costs in any period to compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenue. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with resellers, systems integrators, and other third parties that market and sell our products, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to grow could be materially adversely impacted. Approximately half of our revenue is generated by sales made through partners, distributors, resellers, and systems integrators. If our relationship in any of these sales channels deteriorates or terminates, we may lose important sales and marketing opportunities. In pursuing new partnerships and strategic alliances, we must often compete for the opportunity with similar solution providers. In order to effectively compete for such opportunities, we must introduce products tailored not only to meet specific partner needs, but also to evolving customer and prospective customer needs, and include innovative features and functionality easy for partners to sell and install. Even if we are able to win such opportunities on terms we find acceptable, there is no assurance that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate. Our competitors often seek to establish exclusive relationships with these sales channels or, at a minimum, to become a preferred partner for these sales channels. Some of our sales channel partners also partner with our competitors and may even offer our products and those of our competitors as alternatives when presenting bids to end customers. Our ability to achieve revenue growth depends to a significant extent on maintaining and adding to these sales channels and if we are unable to do so, our revenue could be materially adversely affected. - 32 - Table of Contents Certain provisions in agreements that we have entered into may expose us to liability that is not limited in amount by the terms of the contract. Certain contract provisions, principally confidentiality and indemnification obligations in certain of our license agreements, could expose us to risks of loss that, in some cases, are not limited to a specified maximum amount. Even where we are able to negotiate limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not always be enforced depending on the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. If we or our products fail to perform to the standards required by our contracts, we could be subject to uncapped liability for which we may or may not have adequate insurance and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our products may contain undetected defects which could impair their market acceptance and may result in customer claims for substantial damages if our products fail to perform properly. Our products are complex and involve sophisticated technology that performs critical functions to highly demanding standards. Our existing and future products may develop operational problems. In addition, new products or new versions of existing products may contain undetected defects or errors. If we do not discover such defects, errors, or other operational problems until after a product has been released and used by the customer or partner, we may incur significant costs to correct such defects, errors, or other operational problems, including product liability claims or other contract liabilities to customers or partners. In addition, defects or errors in our products may result in claims for substantial damages and questions regarding the integrity of the products, which could cause adverse publicity and impair their market acceptance. If the regulatory environment does not evolve as expected or does not favor our products, our results may suffer. The regulatory environment relating to our solutions is still evolving and, in the security market in particular, has been driven to a significant extent by legislative and regulatory actions, such as the CALEA in the United States and standards established by the ETSI in Europe, as well as initiatives to strengthen security for critical infrastructure, such as airports. These actions and initiatives are evolving and are at all times subject to change based on factors beyond our control, such as political climate, budgets, and even current events. While we attempt to anticipate these actions and initiatives through our product offerings and refinements thereto, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts, that our competitors will not do so more successfully than us, or that changes in these actions or initiatives or the underlying factors which affect them will not occur which will reduce or eliminate this demand. If any of the foregoing should occur, or if our markets do not grow as anticipated for any other reason, our results may suffer. In addition, changes to these actions or initiatives, including changes to technical requirements, may require us to modify or redesign our products in order to maintain compliance, which may subject us to significant additional expense. - 33 - Table of Contents Conversely, as the telecommunications industry continues to evolve, state, federal, and foreign governments (including supranational government organizations such as the European Union) and industry associations may increasingly regulate the monitoring of telecommunications and telephone or internet monitoring and recording products such as ours. We believe that increases in regulation could come in a number of forms, including increased regulations regarding privacy or protection of personal information such as social security numbers, credit card information, and employment records. The adoption of these types of regulations or changes to existing regulations could cause a decline in the use of our solutions or could result in increased expense for us if we must modify our solutions to comply with these regulations. Moreover, these types of regulations could subject our customers or us to liability. Whether or not these kinds of regulations are adopted, if we do not adequately address the privacy concerns of consumers, companies may be hesitant to use our solutions. If any of these events occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. For certain products and components, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers and if these relationships are interrupted we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers or manufacturers on favorable terms or at all. Although we generally use standard parts and components in our products, we do rely on non-affiliated suppliers for certain non-standard components which may be critical to our products, including both hardware and software, and on manufacturers of assemblies that are incorporated into our products. While we endeavor to use larger, more established suppliers and manufacturers wherever possible, in some cases, these providers may be smaller, more early-stage companies, particularly with respect to suppliers of new technologies we may incorporate into our products that we have not developed internally. Although we do have agreements in place with most of these providers, which include appropriate protections such as source code escrows where needed, these agreements are generally not long-term and these contractual protections offer limited practical benefits to us in the event our relationship with a key provider is interrupted. If these suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity, or quality assurance difficulties, or cease production and sale of the products we buy from them entirely, or there is any other disruption in our relationships with these suppliers or manufacturers, we will be required to locate alternative sources of supply or manufacturing, to internally develop the applicable technologies, to redesign our products to accommodate an alternative technology, or to remove certain features from our products. This could increase the costs of, and create delays in, delivering our products or reduce the functionality of our products, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. - 34 - Table of Contents If we cannot recruit or retain qualified personnel, our ability to operate and grow our business may be limited. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. In addition, in order to continue to grow effectively, we need to attract (and retain) new employees, including managers, finance personnel, sales and marketing personnel, and technical personnel, who understand and have experience with our products, services, and industry. The market for such personnel is intensely competitive in most, if not all, of the geographies in which we operate, and on occasion we have had to relocate personnel to fill positions in locations where we could not attract qualified experienced personnel. Further, for as long as we remain delayed with our SEC reporting obligations and our common stock remains de-listed, we are likely to continue to experience a certain amount of difficulty attracting and retaining highly-qualified personnel, particularly at more senior levels, due to concerns about our status. So long as we remain delayed with our SEC reporting obligations and our common stock remains de-listed, our ability to use our common stock to retain and motivate employees will also continue to be a challenge and subject to certain restrictions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, on reasonable economic and other terms or at all, our ability to grow could be impaired, our ability to timely report our financial results could be adversely affected, and our operations and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Because we have significant foreign operations, we are subject to geopolitical and other risks that could materially adversely affect our business. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including sales, research and development, customer support and administrative services. The countries in which we have our most significant foreign operations include Israel, the United Kingdom, Canada, India, Hong Kong, and Germany, and we intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. We believe our business may suffer if we are unable to successfully expand into new regions, as well as maintain and expand existing foreign operations. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign expansion will be, subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including risks associated with: • foreign currency fluctuations; • political, security, and economic instability in foreign countries; • changes in and compliance with local laws and regulations, including export control laws, tax laws, labor laws, employee benefits, customs requirements, currency restrictions, and other requirements; • differences in tax regimes and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in foreign countries; • customizing products for foreign countries; • legal uncertainties regarding liability and intellectual property rights; • hiring and retaining qualified foreign employees; and • difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods. - 35 - Table of Contents Any or all of these factors could materially affect our business or results of operations. In addition, the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States, may from time to time review the pricing arrangements between us and our foreign subsidiaries. An adverse determination by one or more tax authorities in this regard may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Restrictive laws, policies, or practices in certain countries directed toward Israel or companies having operations in Israel may also limit our ability to sell some of our products in those countries. Conditions in Israel may materially adversely affect our operations and personnel and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. We have significant operations in Israel, including research and development, manufacturing, sales, and support. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, which in the past have led and may in the future, lead to security and economic problems for Israel. In addition, Israel has faced and continues to face difficult relations with the Palestinians and the risk of terrorist violence from both Palestinian as well as foreign elements such as Hezbollah. Infighting among the Palestinians may also create security and economic risks to Israel. Current and future conflicts and political, economic, and/or military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region have affected and may in the future affect our operations in Israel. The exacerbation of violence within Israel or the outbreak of violent conflicts between Israel and its neighbors, including Iran, may impede our ability to manufacture, sell, and support our products, engage in research and development, or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. In addition, many of our employees in Israel are required to perform annual compulsory military service and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The absence of these employees may have an adverse effect on our operations. Hostilities involving Israel may also result in the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. - 36 - Table of Contents Regulatory and Government Contracting We are dependent on contracts with governments around the world for a significant portion of our revenue. These contracts expose us to additional business risks and compliance obligations. A significant portion of our business is generated from sales under government contracts around the world. We expect that government contracts will continue to be a significant source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We must comply with domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with government agencies in various countries and may impose added costs on our business. Our business generated from government contracts may be materially adversely affected if: • our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired; • we are suspended or otherwise prohibited from contracting with a domestic or foreign government or any significant law enforcement agency; • levels of government expenditures and authorizations for law enforcement and security related programs decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide products and services; • we are prevented from entering into new government contracts or extending existing government contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations, including those related to procurement; • we are not granted security clearances that are required to sell our products to domestic or foreign governments or such security clearances are deactivated; • there is a change in government procurement procedures; or • there is a change in political climate that adversely affects our existing or prospective relationships. As a result of the consent judgment we entered into with the SEC relating to our reserves accounting practices, we and our subsidiaries are required, for three years from the date of the settlement, to disclose that this civil judgment was rendered against us in any proposals to perform new government work for U.S. federal agencies. In addition, we and our subsidiaries must amend our representations in existing grants and contracts with U.S. federal agencies to reflect the civil judgment. While this certification does not bar us from receiving government grants or contracts from U.S. federal agencies, each government procurement official has the discretion to determine whether it considers us and our subsidiaries “responsible” companies for purposes of each transaction. The government procurement officials may also seek advice from government agency debarring officials to determine if we and our subsidiaries should be considered for suspension or debarment from receiving government contracts or grants from U.S. federal agencies. In addition, our government contracts may contain, or under applicable law may be deemed to contain, provisions not typically found in private commercial contracts, including provisions enabling the government party to: • terminate or cancel existing contracts for convenience; • in the case of the U.S. federal government, suspend us from doing business with a foreign government or prevent us from selling our products in certain countries; • audit and object to our contract-related costs and expenses, including allocated indirect costs; and • unilaterally change contract terms and conditions, including warranty provisions, schedule, quantities, and scope of work, in advance of our agreement on corresponding pricing adjustments. The effect of these provisions may significantly increase our cost to perform the contract or defer our ability to recognize revenue from such contracts. In some cases, this may mean that we must begin recording expenses on a contract in advance of being able to recognize the corresponding revenue. If a government customer terminates a contract with us for convenience, we may not recover our incurred or committed costs, receive any settlement of expenses, or earn a profit on work completed prior to the termination. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may not recover these amounts, and, in addition, we may be liable for any costs incurred by the government customer in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Further, an agency within a government may share information regarding our termination with other agencies. As a result, our ongoing or prospective relationships with other government agencies could be impaired. - 37 - Table of Contents We may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required for us to export some of our products that we develop or manufacture in specific countries. We are required to obtain export licenses or qualify for other authorizations from the United States, Israel, and other governments to export some of the products that we develop or manufacture in these countries and, in any event, are required to comply with applicable export control laws of each country generally. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining the licenses and other authorizations required to export our products from applicable government authorities. In addition, export laws and regulations are revised from time to time and can be extremely complex in their application; if we are found not to have complied with applicable export control laws, we may be fined or penalized by, among other things, having our ability to obtain export licenses curtailed or eliminated, possibly for an extended period of time. Our failure to receive or maintain any required export licenses or authorizations or our penalization for failure to comply with applicable export control laws would hinder our ability to sell our products and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. U.S. and foreign governments could refuse to buy our Communications Intelligence solutions or could deactivate our security clearances in their countries thereby restricting or eliminating our ability to sell these solutions in those countries and perhaps other countries influenced by such a decision. Some of our subsidiaries maintain security clearances in the United States and other countries in connection with the development, marketing, sale, and support of our Communications Intelligence solutions. These clearances are reviewed from time to time by the applicable government agencies in these countries and following these reviews, our security clearances are either maintained or deactivated. Our security clearances can be deactivated for many reasons, including that the clearing agencies in some countries may object to the fact that we do business in certain other countries or the fact that our local subsidiary is affiliated with or controlled by an entity based in another country. In the event that our security clearances are deactivated in any particular country, we would lose the ability to sell our Communications Intelligence solutions in that country for projects that require security clearances. Additionally, any inability to obtain or maintain security clearances in a particular country may affect our ability to sell our Communications Intelligence solutions in that country generally (even for non-secure projects). We have in the past, and may in the future, have our security clearances deactivated. Any inability to obtain or maintain clearances can materially adversely affect our results of operations. Whether or not we are able to maintain our security clearances, law enforcement and intelligence agencies in certain countries may decline to purchase Communications Intelligence solutions if they were not developed or manufactured in that country. As a result, because our Communications Intelligence solutions are developed or manufactured in whole or in part in Israel or in Germany, there may be certain countries where some or all of the law enforcement and intelligence agencies are unwilling to purchase our Communications Intelligence solutions. If we are unable to sell our Communications Intelligence solutions in certain countries for this reason, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. - 38 - Table of Contents The mishandling or even the perception of mishandling of sensitive information could harm our business. Our products are in some cases used by customers to compile and analyze highly sensitive or confidential information and data, including in some cases, information or data used in intelligence gathering or law enforcement activities. While our customers’ use of our products in no way affords us access to this information or data, we may come into contact with such information or data when we perform services or support functions for our customers. We have implemented policies and procedures to help ensure the proper handling of such information and data, including background screening of services personnel, non-disclosure agreements, access rules, and controls on our information technology systems. However, these measures are designed to mitigate the risks associated with handling sensitive data and cannot safeguard against all risks at all times. The improper handling of sensitive data, or even the perception of such mishandling or other security lapses or risks, whether or not valid, could reduce demand for our products or otherwise expose us to financial or reputational harm. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected. While much of our intellectual property is protected by patents or patent applications, we have not and cannot protect all of our intellectual property with patents or other registrations. There can be no assurance that patents we have applied for will be issued on the basis of our patent applications or that, if such patents are issued, they will be sufficiently broad enough to protect our technologies, products, or services. There can be no assurance that we will file new patent, trademark, or copyright applications, that any future applications will be approved, that any existing or future patents, trademarks or copyrights will adequately protect our intellectual property or that any existing or future patents, trademarks, or copyrights will not be challenged by third parties. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, designed-around, or challenged. In order to safeguard our unpatented proprietary know-how, source code, trade secrets, and technology, we rely primarily upon trade secret protection and non-disclosure provisions in agreements with employees and other third parties having access to our confidential information. There can be no assurance that these measures will adequately protect us from improper disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is difficult. The laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately against unauthorized third-party use or infringement, which could adversely affect our competitive position. - 39 - Table of Contents Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could lead to costly disputes or disruptions for us and may require us to indemnify our customers and partners for any damages they suffer. The technology industry is characterized by frequent allegations of intellectual property infringement. In the past, third parties have asserted that certain of our products infringed upon their intellectual property rights and similar claims may be made in the future. Any allegation of infringement against us could be time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management resources, cause product shipment delays, or force us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If patent holders or other holders of intellectual property initiate legal proceedings against us, we may be forced into protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. We may not be successful in defending such litigation, in part due to the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation, and may not be able to procure any required royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. Subject to certain limitations, we generally indemnify our customers and partners with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages, be required to obtain licenses for the products our customers or partners use, or incur significant expenses in developing non-infringing alternatives. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using or, in the case of resellers and other partners, stop selling our products. Loss of third-party licensing agreements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While most of our products are developed internally, we also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization of certain products or components. If we lose or are unable to maintain licenses or distribution rights, we could incur additional costs or experience unexpected delays until an alternative solution can be internally developed or licensed from another third party and integrated into our products or we may be forced to re-design our products or remove certain features from our products. See “For certain products and components, we rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers and if these relationships are interrupted we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers or manufacturers on favorable terms or at all” above for additional information. - 40 - Table of Contents Use of free or open source software could expose our products to unintended restrictions and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Some of our products contain free or open source (collectively, “open source”) software and we anticipate making use of open source software in the future. Open source software is generally covered by license agreements that permit the user to use, copy, modify, and distribute the software without cost, provided that the users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source software generally provide no warranties on such software. Although we endeavor to monitor the use of open source software in our product development, we cannot assure you that past, present, or future products will not contain open source elements which impose unfavorable licensing restrictions or other requirements on our products. In addition, the terms of many open source licenses have not yet been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts and as a result there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on products that use such software. The introduction of certain kinds of open source software into our products or a court decision construing an open source license in an unexpected way could require us to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering affected products, to re-engineer affected products, to discontinue sales of affected products, or to release all or portions of the source code of affected products under the terms of the applicable open source licenses. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Finances We have incurred significant indebtedness as a result of the acquisition of Witness, which makes us highly leveraged, subjects us to restrictive covenants, and could adversely affect our operations. Risks associated with being highly leveraged. At February 28, 2010, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $620 million. As a result of our significant indebtedness, we are highly leveraged. Our leverage position may, among other things: • limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; • require us to repatriate cash for debt service from our foreign subsidiaries resulting in dividend tax costs or require us to adopt other disadvantageous tax structures to accommodate debt service payments; or • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, and restrict our flexibility to react to changes in market or industry conditions. In addition, because our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. While we have hedged a portion of this exposure under our term loan, this interest rate swap does not cover all of our term loan indebtedness, it expires prior to the maturity date of our term loan, and it subjects us to above-market interest rates at any time that prevailing rates drop below the rate fixed by the swap. On January 29, 2010, S&P announced that our credit rating had been placed on CreditWatch Developing, and there can be no assurance that S&P or Moody’s will not downgrade our credit rating. - 41 - Table of Contents Risks associated with our leverage ratio and financial statement delivery covenants. Our credit agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum consolidated leverage ratio and a covenant requiring us to deliver audited financial statements to the lenders each year as provided below. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7 for additional information. Our ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant is highly dependent upon our ability to continue to grow earnings from quarter to quarter, which requires us to increase revenue while limiting increases in expenses or, if we are unable to increase or maintain revenue, to reduce expenses. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and our leverage ratio covenant will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Alternatively, we may seek to maintain compliance with the leverage ratio covenant by reducing our outstanding debt by raising additional funds through a number of means, including, but not limited to, securities offerings or asset sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our earnings, reduce our expenses, and/or raise funds to reduce our outstanding debt to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this covenant. In addition, any expense reductions undertaken to maintain compliance may impair our ability to compete by, among other things, limiting research and development or hiring of key personnel. The complexity of our revenue accounting and the continued shift of our business to the end of the quarter (discussed in greater detail above) has also increased the difficulty in accurately forecasting quarterly revenue and therefore in predicting whether we will be in compliance with the leverage ratio requirements at the end of each quarter. Because our revenue recognition review resulted in changes in the way we recognize revenue from the way we did so at the time the credit agreement was put in place, it may be more difficult for us to maintain compliance with our leverage ratio covenant on a prospective basis than we expected at the time we entered into the credit agreement since the leverage ratio covenant is based on our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), which is affected by revenue. In addition, because U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) require us to continue to refine our accounting for open periods until the financial statements for such periods are filed, it is also possible that we may determine that we were not in compliance with the leverage ratio covenant in periods subsequent to January 31, 2008, until such time as we file the financial statements for such periods. Following an event of default under the credit agreement, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. In that event, we may be forced to sell assets, raise additional capital through a securities offering, or seek to refinance or restructure our debt. In such a case, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate such a sale, securities offering, or refinance or restructure our debt on reasonable terms or at all. The credit agreement also includes a requirement that we submit audited consolidated financial statements to the lenders within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year beginning with the year ending January 31, 2010, which for the year ended January 31, 2010 is May 1, 2010. If audited consolidated financial statements are not so delivered and such failure of delivery is not remedied within 30 days thereafter, an event of default occurs. - 42 - Table of Contents Limitations resulting from the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement. Our credit agreement also includes a number of restrictive covenants which limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or liens or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or subordinated indebtedness; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • sell certain assets; • change our lines of business; • make investments, loans, or advances; and • engage in consolidations, mergers, liquidations, or dissolutions. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, to meet our capital needs, or to otherwise engage in transactions that might be considered beneficial to us. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of the preferred stock that we issued to Comverse in connection with the Witness acquisition. In connection with the Witness acquisition, we issued 293,000 shares of preferred stock to Comverse at an aggregate purchase price of $293.0 million. The issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the preferred stock (after the conversion feature of the preferred stock has been approved by our stockholders) will result in substantial dilution to the other common stockholders. In addition, the terms of the preferred stock include liquidation, dividend, and other rights that are senior to and more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. As part of our growth strategy, we have made a number of acquisitions and investments and expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in the future. However, so long as we remain delayed with our SEC filings and our common stock remains de-listed, our ability to use our common stock to raise capital for acquisitions will continue to be severely restricted. Future acquisitions or investments, if any, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, investments in immature businesses with unproven track records and technologies have a high degree of risk, with the possibility that we may lose the value of our entire investments and potentially incur additional unexpected liabilities. - 43 - Table of Contents The process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and investing in new technologies may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, which may require a significant amount of our management’s attention that would otherwise be focused on the ongoing operation of our business. Other risks we may encounter with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic positions and our reputation, the inability to obtain the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including synergies or economies of scale, on a timely basis or at all, or unexpected challenges in reconciling business practices, particularly in foreign geographies. Due to rapidly changing market conditions, we may also find the value of our acquired technologies and related intangible assets, such as goodwill, as recorded in our financial statements, to be impaired, resulting in charges to operations. The magnitude of these risks is greater in the case of large acquisitions, such as our 2007 acquisition of Witness. See Note 5, “Business Combinations” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or that we will be able to effectively integrate any acquisitions we do make or realize the expected benefits for our business. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become further impaired, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets have represented a substantial portion of our assets. As of January 31, 2008, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.0 billion, or approximately 70% of our total assets. At a minimum, we assess annually whether there has been impairment in the carrying amount of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. In determining fair value, we make significant judgments and estimates, including assumptions about our strategic plans with regard to our operations, as well as current economic indicators and market valuations. We have recorded non-cash impairment charges related to our Video Intelligence business (the MultiVision acquisition) and our Workforce Optimization performance management consulting business (the Opus, CM Insight, and a portion of the Witness acquisitions) for the years ended January 31, 2008 and 2007, totaling $23.4 million, and $24.7 million, respectively. In addition, we expect to record a material non-cash impairment charge for the year ended January 31, 2009 in the range of $11 million to $46 million. To the extent economic conditions that would impact the future fair value of our reporting units worsen, we would be required to record an additional non-cash charge. Any significant goodwill or intangible asset impairment would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Note 6, “Intangible Assets and Goodwill” and Note 19, “Subsequent Events” to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 for more information. - 44 - Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to currency exchange risk. Most of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars, while a significant portion of our operating expenses, primarily labor expenses, is denominated in the local currencies where our foreign operations are located, principally Israel, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Canada. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could increase the U.S. Dollar cost of our operations in these countries and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, since a portion of our sales are made in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound and the Euro, fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar could impact our revenue (on a U.S. Dollar basis) and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to realize value from and use our net operating losses will impact our results and tax liability. We have significant deferred tax assets as a result of prior net operating losses. These deferred tax assets can provide us with significant future tax savings if we are able to use them. However, the extent to which we will be able to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted, or eliminated by a number of factors including whether we generate sufficient future net income, a future ownership change, adjustments to Comverse’s tax liability for periods prior to our IPO, or changes in tax rates, laws, or regulations that could have retroactive effect. To the extent that we are unable to utilize our net operating losses, our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition could be adversely affected in a significant manner. When we cease to have net operating loss carry forwards available to us in a particular tax jurisdiction, either through their expiration, disallowance, or utilization, our effective tax rate will increase in that jurisdiction, thereby impacting our overall effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate in any given year is also dependent on the relative mix of jurisdictions (and corresponding local tax rates) in which we operate. Research and development and tax benefits we receive in Israel may be reduced or eliminated in the future and our receipt of these benefits subjects us to certain restrictions. We receive grants from the OCS for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The availability in any given year of these OCS grants depends on OCS approval of the projects and related budgets we submit to the OCS each year. In addition, in recent years, the Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. The continued reduction in these benefits or the termination of our eligibility to receive these benefits may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Israeli law under which these OCS grants are made also limits our ability to manufacture products, or transfer technologies, developed using these grants outside of Israel. This may limit our ability to engage in certain outsourcing or business combination transactions involving these products. We may seek permission from the OCS to manufacture these products or transfer these technologies out of Israel, but we cannot assure you that any such request would be approved, and even if approved, we may be required to pay significant royalties or fees to the OCS. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, we may be required to repay the grants we received from the OCS and could also become subject to monetary or criminal penalties. - 45 - Table of Contents Our facility in Israel has been granted approved enterprise status and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments. The Government of Israel may reduce or eliminate the tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs such as the programs provided to us. There can be no assurance that these tax benefits will continue in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits are reduced or eliminated, the amount of tax that we pay in Israel will increase. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and requirements of the investment programs, the tax benefits we have received may be rescinded and we may be required to disgorge the amount of the tax benefit received, together with interest and penalties. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 