D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business This annual report contains forward-looking statements such as forecasts of operating results, management strategies, objectives and plans, forecasts of operational data such as the expected number of subscription, and the expected dividend payments. All forward-looking statements that are not historical facts are based on management’s current plans, expectations, assumptions and estimates based on the information currently available. Some of the projected numbers in this report were derived using certain assumptions that are indispensable for making such projections in addition to historical facts. These forward-looking statements are subject to various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in or suggested by any forward-looking statement. Potential risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, the following: Changes in the market environment in the telecommunications industry, such as intensifying competition from other businesses or other technologies caused by Mobile Number Portability, development of appealing new handsets, new market entrants, mergers among other service providers and other factors, or the expansion of the areas of competition could limit the acquisition of new subscriptions and retention of existing subscriptions by our corporate group, or it may lead to ARPU diminishing at a greater than expected rate, an increase in our costs, or an inability to reduce expenses as expected. Mobile Number Portability (“MNP”), the development of appealing handsets, the entry of new service providers, mergers among other service providers and other factors are intensifying competition for our corporate group from other service providers in the telecommunications industry. For example, other mobile service providers have introduced handsets that keep up with the needs and desires of customers, including handsets that support high-speed services and music/video playback, new services such as music and video distribution services, and flat-rate services for voice communications and e-mail, as well as installment sales methods for devices. There are also providers that offer services related to the convergence of fixed and mobile services, such as aggregated point programs, services offering free calls between fixed-line and mobile phones and discounts for combining fixed line and mobile services, and if services that are highly convenient for customers are offered in the future, the Company, which is subject to regulatory constraints, may be limited in its ability to respond in a timely and suitable manner. Furthermore, if other providers offer handsets that are more appealing than our own handset lineup, we may be unable to respond in a timely and suitable manner. If we are unable to build a network having a certain area and quality within the anticipated period of time, while other service providers build mobile communications networks with an area and quality that exceeds ours, customer satisfaction with our network may decline. At the same time, competition is intensifying as a result of the introduction of other new services and technologies, especially low-priced and flat-rate services, such as fixed-line or mobile IP phones (including services that use applications that run on our smartphones and tablets), high-speed broadband Internet service, digital broadcasting, public wireless LAN using Wi-Fi, other free or low-priced services of OTT*1 service providers, and so on, or a combination of these services. In addition to competition from other service providers and technologies in the telecommunications industry, there are other factors increasing competition among mobile network operators, such as saturation in the Japanese mobile communications market, changes to business and market structures due to the expansion of the areas of competition arising from the entry of competitors in the market, including MVNOs*2 and competitors from other industries, changes in the regulatory environment, and increased rate competition. With the use of open platform devices like smartphones and tablets becoming increasingly widespread, many businesses and others have entered the competition in service offerings on mobile phones, and it is possible that those businesses, etc. may eventually launch services that are more convenient for customers, and further intensify rate competition. 6 Table of Contents In this market environment, the decline in the number of net new subscriptions we acquire may accelerate in the future and may not reach the number we expect. Also, we may not be able to maintain existing subscriptions as customers migrate to other service providers due to increased competition. Furthermore, in order to capture new subscriptions and maintain existing subscriptions, there could be a greater-than-expected decline in ARPU and/or greater-than-expected costs. In this fierce market environment, in order to provide advanced services and increase convenience to our customers, we have made various revisions, such as in rates and the provision of discounted services. For example, we introduced the “Xi Kake-hodai” flat-rate domestic voice service to our subscribers and the “Xi Pake-hodai FLAT,” “Xi Pake-hodai double” and “Xi Pake-hodai light” packet flat-rate services for “Xi” subscribers. Also, we introduced “monthly support,” which is a fixed amount discounted from monthly usage rates set for each equipment type. However, we cannot be certain that these rate revisions and discounted services will enable us to acquire new and maintain existing subscriptions. Also, although we forecast some decline in ARPU as a result of these rate revisions and discounts, if the subscription ratio for various discount services or the trend in migration to flat-rate services are not in line with the expectations of our corporate group, our ARPU may decrease more than projected. Furthermore, if market growth slows or the market shrinks, ARPU may decrease even more than our forecast and we may not be able to capture new subscriptions or maintain the existing number of subscriptions at the level we expect. In addition, in order to reinforce our managerial structure, we are promoting increased efficiency related to our network, sales and services, research and development and narrowing our product line-up to concentrate resources. The push toward greater efficiency, however, may not proceed as expected, and costs may not be reduced as anticipated due to intense competition from other service providers and changes in the market environment. These foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. *1 Abbreviation of Over The Top. A business that does not own the communications infrastructure required for delivering its services and that delivers content services using the communication infrastructure of other companies. *2 Abbreviation of Mobile Virtual Network Operator. A business that borrows the wireless communication infrastructure of other companies to provide services. If current and new services, usage patterns, and sales schemes proposed and introduced by our corporate group cannot be developed as planned, or if unanticipated expenses arise, the financial condition of our corporate group could be affected and our growth could be limited. We view increases in revenue as an important factor in our future growth, for instance, the increasing of revenues by promoting the more widespread use of i-mode services, of smartphone services such as sp-mode, dmenu and dmarket, and of Xi services, as well as the expansion of their packet communications and other data communications and crowd services like “Shabette-Concier” and the like. Moreover, it is also an important factor to increase the returns through initiatives that create new value by integrating various businesses and services such as media/content, finance/payment, commerce, medical/healthcare, Machine-to-Machine (“M2M”) and environment/ecology with the aim of “realizing a smart life.” However, a number of uncertainties may arise to prevent the development of these services and constrain our growth. Furthermore, if market growth slows or the market shrinks, the services, forms of usage, and sales methods provided by us may not develop sufficiently, which could affect our financial conditions and limit our growth. In particular, we cannot be certain as to whether or not the following can be achieved: • To develop the cooperative relationships as anticipated by our corporate group with the partners needed to provide the services and/or forms of usage that we offer, with the software vendors that provide the operating systems and applications necessary to promote the use of smartphone and other services, with handset manufacturers, content providers, and with stores that have installed equipment capable of handling e-wallet transactions; • To provide planned new services and forms of usage as scheduled and keep costs needed for the deployment and expansion of such services within budget; 7 Table of Contents • The services, forms of usage, and installment sales and other methods that we offer and plan to offer will be attractive to current and potential subscribers and there will be sufficient demand for such services; • Manufacturers and content providers will steadily create and offer products including FOMA and Xi handsets, handsets compatible with services we provide, software such as the operating systems and applications necessary to encourage the use of smartphone services, as well as content in a timely fashion and at appropriate prices; • Our current and future services, including ISP services such as i-mode, sp-mode, fee plans and discounted services for use of voice and packet communications, intelligent services like Shabette-Concier and Hanashite Honyaku, the storage services like photo collection, the services on dmarket such as dgame, dvideo and dshopping, and initiatives for new market creation through the convergence with various businesses, including financial and payment services like DCMX, media/content services like NOTTV, commerce businesses run by OAK LAWN MARKETING, INC. and Radishbo-ya Co., Ltd., and medical/healthcare services run by docomo Health Care, Inc. and Nihon Ultmarc Inc. will be attractive to existing and potential subscribers and achieve continued or new growth; • The services provided by our corporate group, based on an open platform system, will not be surpassed by more competitive and sought after services provided by other service providers; • Demand in the market for mobile handset functionality will be as we envision, and as a result, our handset procurement costs will be reduced, which will enable us to offer our handsets at appropriate prices; • To expand services with improved data communication speed enabled by LTE*1/LTE-Advanced*2 and other technology as planned; and If the development of our new services or forms of use is limited, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. *1 Abbreviation of Long Term Evolution. A mobile communications protocol with specifications formulated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project. *2 While maintaining technical compatibility with LTE, standardization to 3GPP, a more sophisticated mobile communication system, is progressing. The introduction or change of various laws or regulations inside and outside of Japan, or the application of such laws and regulations to our corporate group, could restrict our business operations, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Japanese telecommunications industry has been undergoing regulatory reform in many areas, including rate regulation. Because we operate on radio spectrum allocated by the Japanese government, the mobile telecommunications industry in which we operate is particularly affected by the regulatory environment. Furthermore, in some cases, our group is subject to special regulations that are not imposed on other providers. Various governmental bodies have been recommending or considering changes that could affect the mobile telecommunications industry, and there may be continued reforms, including the introduction or revision of laws, regulations, or systems that could have an adverse effect on us. These include: • Regulations to accelerate competition in the handset area, such as SIM* unlocking regulations; • Revision of the spectrum allocation system, such as reallocation of spectrum and introduction of an auction system; • Measures to open up some segments of telecommunication platform functions such as authentication and payment collection to other corporations; • Rules that could require us to open functions regarding our services, such as i-mode and sp-mode services, to platform providers, Internet service providers, content providers, etc.; • Regulations to prohibit or restrict certain content, transactions or mobile Internet services such as i-mode or sp-mode; 8 Table of Contents • Regulations that would prohibit or restrict the provision of discounted services by our corporate group premised on continuous usage term agreements, including cancellation charges like that for the Famiwari MAX50 and the like; • Measures which would introduce new costs such as the designation of mobile phone communication as a universal service and other changes to the current universal service fund system; • Fair competition measures to promote new entry by MVNOs; • Introduction of new measures to promote competition based on a review of the designated telecommunications facilities system (dominant carrier regulation); • Review of the structure of the NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION (“NTT”) group, which includes our group; and • Other measures, including competition safeguard measures directed toward us, NTT East and NTT West or the revision of the rules of access charge between operators to enhance competition that would restrict our business operations in the telecommunications industry. In addition to the above proposed changes that may impact the mobile communications business, we may be impacted by a variety of laws, regulations, and systems inside and outside of Japan. For example, in response to an increase in the number of subscriptions or in the traffic volume per subscriber, we have proceeded with the enhancement of our telecommunications facilities in order to ensure and improve our service quality. As a result, we are using an increasing amount of electricity. Moreover, we are implementing measures directed towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including deployment of low-power consumption devices and efficient power generators. However, with the implementation of regulations and other measures aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, our cost burdens may increase, and this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, the financial condition and operating results of our corporate group may be adversely affected by the increased cost of maintaining and operating the facilities we require for providing our services on account of electricity cost increases due to high fuel prices. In July 2010 the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in the U.S. Based on this, the US Securities and Exchange Commission established rules in August 2012 requiring listed companies that use designated minerals in their products to disclose whether such minerals come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these rules could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in the form of higher costs arising from expense of conducting the research needed for regulatory compliance or from an increase in the prices of materials that use such minerals. Further still, in order to ensure new sources of revenue, we are pursuing initiatives to create new value through the convergence of mobile services with various services and industries, including media/content, finance/payment, commerce, medical/healthcare, M2M, environment/ecology and other fields through equity participation and partnerships. Therefore, we are vulnerable to impacts from laws, regulations and systems specific to new services, operations and areas of business, in addition to the laws, regulations and systems applicable to the mobile communications business. If such laws, regulations, or systems are implemented, they may work as constraints on our group’s business operations, and this may have an adverse effect on our group’s financial condition and corporate performance. It is difficult to predict with certainty if any proposed changes impacting the mobile telecommunications business, or if any other relevant laws, regulations or systems will be drafted, and if they are implemented, the extent to which our business will be affected. However, if any one or more of the above proposed changes impacting the mobile telecommunications business occurs, or if laws, regulations or systems are introduced, reformed, or become applicable to us, we may experience constraints on the provision of our mobile communication services, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. * Abbreviation of Subscriber Identity Module. An IC card inserted into a handset on which subscriber information is recorded, used to identify user. 9 Table of Contents Limitations in the amount of frequency spectrum or facilities made available to us could negatively affect our ability to maintain and improve our service quality and level of customer satisfaction and could increase our costs. One of the principal limitations on a mobile communication network’s capacity is the available radio frequency spectrum we can use. There are limitations in the spectrum and facilities available to us to provide our services. As a result, in certain parts of metropolitan Tokyo and Osaka, such as areas near major train stations, our mobile communication network operates at or near the maximum capacity of its available spectrum during peak periods, which may cause reduced service quality. Furthermore, with the number of subscriptions and traffic volume per subscriber increasing, our service quality may decline if we cannot obtain the necessary allocation of spectrum from the Japanese government for the smooth operation of our business. Even though our corporate group plans to establish specified base stations to use the newly allocated 700MHz band, if measures for acceleration (acceleration measures for termination) of the transfer of existing FPU* and specified radio microphones that are currently using this spectrum do not proceed as anticipated, our corporate group may not be able to operate the mobile communication network smoothly, service quality may decline, and additional expenses may arise. Although we are working to improve the efficiency of our spectrum use through technology such as LTE, including migration to LTE and other measures and to acquire additional spectrum, we may be unable to avoid a reduced quality of services. In addition, due to the limited processing capacity of our base stations, switching facilities, and other equipment necessary for providing services, the quality of the services we provide may also decrease during peak usage periods if our subscription base dramatically increases or the volume of content such as images and music provided through our networks significantly expands. Also, in relation to our FOMA and Xi services, the growth in the number of service subscribers and traffic volume per subscriber could significantly exceed our expectations due to the proliferation of smartphones and tablets as well as data communication devices for PCs. Furthermore, some of the software that runs on smartphones and tablets could result in greater use of control signals (the signals exchanged between devices and the network) in order to establish and terminate communications, and could therefore put a greater-than-anticipated burden on our facilities. If it becomes impossible to process such traffic using our existing equipment, service quality may deteriorate, communication interruptions may arise and the cost of investing in equipment to address these issues could increase. We are endeavoring to reinforce the network foundation in order to cope with future increases in smartphone traffic. If unforeseen circumstances should arise, such as communication interruptions due to an increase in the number of subscribers and traffic volume and/or control signals per subscriber, and we are not able to address such problems sufficiently and in a timely manner, our ability to provide mobile communication services could be constrained or we could lose customers’ trust, and as a result, we could lose subscribers to our competitors. At the same time, the cost of investing in equipment to address these issues could increase, and this could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. * Abbreviation for Field Pickup Unit. A wireless relay system used for TV broadcasting of sports, news, and the like. Other mobile service providers in the world may not adopt the technologies and the frequency bands that are compatible with those used by our corporate group’s mobile communications system on a continuing basis, which could affect our ability to sufficiently offer international services. We are able to offer global roaming services on a worldwide basis on the condition that a sufficient number of other mobile service providers have adopted technologies and frequency bands that are compatible with those we use on our mobile communications systems. We expect that our overseas affiliates, strategic partners and many other mobile service providers will continue to use the technologies and the frequency bands that are compatible with ours, but there is no guarantee of this in the future. 10 Table of Contents If a sufficient number of mobile service providers do not adopt the technologies and the frequency bands that are compatible with ours, if mobile service providers switch to other technologies or frequency bands, or if there is a delay in the introduction and expansion of compatible technologies and frequency bands, we may not be able to offer international roaming or other services as expected, and we may not be able to offer our subscribers the convenience of overseas services. Also, we cannot be sure that handset manufacturers or manufacturers of network equipment will be able to appropriately and promptly adjust their products if we need to change the handsets or network we currently use due to a change in the standard technology we adopt, resulting from the activities of standards organizations. If such technologies and frequency bands compatible with those we have adopted do not develop as we expect and if we are not able to maintain or improve the quality of our overseas services, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our domestic and international investments, alliances and collaborations may not produce the returns or provide the opportunities we expect. One of the major components of our strategy is to increase our corporate value through domestic and overseas investments, alliances and collaborations. We have entered into alliances and collaborations with other companies and organizations overseas which we believe can assist us in achieving this objective. We are also promoting this strategy by investing in, entering into alliances with, and collaborating with domestic companies and investing in new business fields. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or enhance the value or performance of the past or future investments or joint ventures established, or that we will receive the returns or benefits we expect from these investments, alliances and collaborations. Our investments in new business fields outside of the mobile telecommunication business, such as media/content, finance/payment, commerce, medical/healthcare, M2M (Machine-to-Machine), environment/ecology and the like, may be accompanied by uncertain and unforeseeable factors, as we have little experience in such new areas of business. In recent years, the companies in which we have invested have experienced a variety of negative impacts, including severe competition, increased debt burdens, worldwide economic recession, significant change in share prices and financial difficulties. To the extent that these investments are accounted for by the equity method and to the extent that the investee companies have net losses, our financial results will be adversely affected by our pro rata portion of these losses. If there is a loss in the value of our investment in any investee company and it is not regarded as a temporary decline, our corporate group may be required to adjust the book value and recognize an impairment loss for such investment. Also, a business combination or other similar transaction involving any of our investee companies could require us to realize impairment loss for any decline in the value of investment in such investee company. In either event, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Malfunctions, defects or imperfection in our products and services or those of other parties may give rise to problems. Various functions are mounted on the mobile handsets we provide. Additionally, a large number of vendors, including our partners and other companies, provide services via the mobile handsets that we provide. If any problems arise due to the imperfection in a product or service provided by the Company or by another vendor such as technological problems in the handsets provided by us or by outside vendors or in software or systems, or if any other failures, defects, or losses arise, such problems could diminish our credibility or corporate image, lead to an increase in cancellations of subscriptions, or result in an increase in expenses for indemnity payments to subscribers, and our financial condition or results of operations may be affected. Furthermore in an effort to ensure new sources of revenue, we are pursuing initiatives to create new value through the convergence of mobile service with various other services and industries, including media/content, finance/payment, commerce, 11 Table of Contents medical/healthcare, M2M and environment/ecology. Should problems arise due to the imperfection in such products or services, they could diminish our credibility or corporate image and our financial condition, or results of operations may be affected. Certain events may lead to a decrease in our credibility and corporate image, an increase in cancellations of subscriptions or increased costs. The following are possible examples of such events: • Malfunctions, defects or breakdowns in any of the various functions built into our handsets; • Malfunctions, defects, or failures in the software and systems necessary for the services we provide; • Malfunctions, defects, or failures in handsets or services originating from imperfection in services of other parties; • Leaks or losses of information, e-money, reward points, or content due to malfunctions, defects, or failures in handsets, software, or systems or imperfection in services of other parties; • Improper use of information, e-money, credit functions and reward points by third parties due to a loss or theft of handsets; • Improper access or misuse of customer information/data stored on handsets or servers, such as usage histories and balances, by a third party; • Inadequate and inappropriate management of e-money, credit functions, reward points, or other data by companies with which we make alliances or collaborate; or • Harm or losses to customers due to defects in products or services offered through an e-commerce business such as a home shopping service, or products and services offered on one of our platforms, such as dmenu or dmarket. • Harm or loss to customers due to imperfections in products and services in the fields such as medical/healthcare, M2M and environment/ecology that we provide as part of our effort to create new value for our customers. Social problems that could be caused by misuse or misunderstanding of our products and services may adversely affect our credibility or corporate image. We may face an increase in cancellations of subscriber contracts and difficulty in acquiring new subscriptions due to decreased credibility of our products and services and damaged corporate image caused by inappropriate use of our products and services by subscribers. For example, there are cases of unsolicited bulk e-mails sent through our e-mail services, including i-mode mail, SMS and sp-mode mail. Despite our extensive efforts to address this issue caused by unsolicited bulk e-mails including notifying our subscribers via various brochures, providing unsolicited bulk e-mail filtering functions with our handsets and suspending our services to companies which distribute large amounts of such unsolicited bulk e-mails, the problem has not yet been rooted out. If our subscribers receive a large amount of unsolicited e-mail, it may cause a decrease in customer satisfaction and may damage our corporate image, leading to a reduction in the number of i-mode or sp-mode subscriptions. Mobile phones have been used in crimes such as billing fraud. To combat these misuses of our services, and because voice-enabled pre-paid mobile phones are easier to use in criminal activities, we have introduced various measures such as stricter identification confirmation at points of purchase and terminated service for voice-enabled pre-paid mobile phones as of March 31, 2012. However, in the event that criminal usage increases, mobile phones may be regarded by society as a problem, which may lead to an increase in the cancellation of contracts. In addition, problems arose from the fact that subscribers were charged fees for packet communication at higher levels than they were aware of as a result of using mobile phones without fully recognizing the increased volume and frequency of the use of packet communications as our handsets and services became more 12 Table of Contents sophisticated. There have also been problems with high charges due to excessive use of paid content services and problems with accidents being caused by the use of mobile phones while operating automobiles and bicycles. Further, there are a variety of issues concerning the possession of mobile phones by children in elementary and junior high schools and discussions concerning whether our access restriction service to harmful web sites (“filtering service”), which applies generally to subscribers under 20 years of age in accordance with the Act on Establishment of Enhanced Environment for Youth’s Safe and Secure Internet Use, is sufficient and accurate. These issues may similarly damage our corporate image. We believe that we have properly addressed the social issues involving mobile phones by providing various services such as a filtering service and access restriction services and cell phones specifically designed for young people. However, it is uncertain whether we will be able to continue to respond appropriately to those issues in the future. Should we fail to do so, we may experience an increase in the cancellation of existing subscriber contracts or fail to acquire new subscribers as expected, and this may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inadequate handling of confidential business information including personal information by our corporate group, contractors and others, may adversely affect our credibility or corporate image. We possess information on numerous subscribers in telecommunications, credit, catalog sales and other businesses, and to appropriately and promptly address the Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Information, we have put in place comprehensive company-wide security management that includes thorough management of confidential information such as personal information, employee education, supervision of subcontractors and the strengthening technological security. However, in the event an information leak occurs despite these security measures, our credibility and corporate image may be significantly damaged and we may experience an increase in cancellation of subscriber contracts, an increase in indemnity costs and slower increase in additional subscriptions, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Owners of intellectual property rights that are essential for our business execution may not grant us a license or other use of such intellectual property rights, which may result in our inability to offer certain technologies, products and/or services, and our corporate group may also be held liable for damage compensation if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, the illicit use by a third party of the intellectual property rights owned by our corporate group could reduce our license revenues actually obtained and may inhibit our competitive superiority. For us and our business partners to carry out our business, it is necessary to obtain licenses and other rights to use the intellectual property rights of third parties. Currently, we are obtaining licenses from the holders of the rights concerned by concluding license agreements. We will obtain the licenses from the holders of the rights concerned if others have the rights to intellectual property necessary for us to operate our business in the future. However, if we cannot come to an agreement with the holders of the rights concerned or a mutual agreement concerning the granted rights cannot be maintained afterwards, there is a possibility that we or our business partners might not be able to provide our specific technologies, products or services. Also, if we receive claims of violation of intellectual property rights from others, we may be required to expend considerable time and expense to reach a resolution. If such claims are acknowledged, we may be liable to pay damages for infringement of the rights concerned, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the illicit use by a third party of the intellectual property rights owned by our corporate group could reduce our license revenues actually obtained and may inhibit our competitive superiority. 13 Table of Contents Events and incidents caused by natural disasters, social infrastructure paralysis such as power shortages, proliferation of harmful substances, terror or other destructive acts, the malfunctioning of equipment, software bugs, deliberate incidents induced by computer viruses, cyber attacks, equipment misconfiguration, hacking, unauthorized access and other problems could cause failure in our networks, distribution channels, and/or other factors necessary for the provision of service, disrupting our ability to offer services to our subscribers, and such incidents may adversely affect our credibility or corporate image, or lead to a reduction of revenues and/or increase of costs. We have built a nationwide network, including base stations, antennas, switching centers and transmission lines, and provide mobile communication service using this network. In order to operate our network systems in a safe and stable manner, we have various measures in place, such as duplicative systems. However, despite these measures, our system could fail for various reasons, including malfunctioning of system hardware and software, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons and floods, paralysis of social infrastructure, such as power shortages, terrorism, and similar events and incidents, and the inability to sufficiently operate and maintain network facilities due to, for example, the proliferation of harmful substances or the spread of an epidemic. These system failures can require an extended time for repair and, as a result, may lead to decreased revenues and significant cost burdens, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. There have been instances in which tens of millions of computers worldwide were infected by viruses through fixed line Internet connections. As smartphones become more widespread, however, a growing number of viruses are also targeting mobile handsets. Similar incidents could occur on our networks, handsets, or other equipment. If such a virus entered our network or handsets or other equipment through such means as hacking, unauthorized access, or otherwise, or if there was a cyber attack, our system could fail, the services we provide could become unusable service quality could be impacted and/or confidential information could be leaked. In such an instance, the credibility of our network, handsets and other equipment and customer satisfaction could decrease significantly. Although we have enhanced security measures including systems to block unauthorized access, remote downloading for mobile phones, and the provision of “Anshin Net Security,” an antivirus solution for smartphones in order to provide for unexpected events, such precautions may not make our system fully prepared for every contingency. Moreover, software bugs, incorrect equipment settings, and human errors that are not the result of malfeasance could also result in system failures, diminished service quality, or leaks of confidential information. In addition, events or incidents caused by natural disasters, social infrastructure paralysis, proliferation of harmful substances, spread of an epidemic, or any other event could force our offices or critical business partners, including sales agencies, to suffer constraints on business operations or to temporarily close their offices or stores. In such a case, we would lose the opportunity to sell or provide goods and services and also may not be able to respond appropriately to subscription applications and requests from subscribers, such as after-sales service requests. If we are unable to properly respond to any such events, our credibility or corporate image may decrease, and we may experience a decrease in revenues as well as significant cost burdens, and if market growth slows or the market shrinks due to any such event, ARPU may decrease below our forecast, or we may not be able to gain new subscriptions or maintain the existing number of subscriptions at the level we expect. All of these factors may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Concerns about adverse health effects arising from wireless telecommunications may spread and consequently adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reports by the World Health Organization (WHO), other organizations and various media sources have suggested that radio wave emissions from mobile handsets and other wireless telecommunications devices may interfere with various electronic medical devices including hearing aids and pacemakers or may adversely affect the health of their users and others by causing cancer or other diseases. The concerns about risk of wireless telecommunication devices to the health of users could adversely affect our corporate image, financial condition 14 Table of Contents and results of operations through increased cancellation by existing subscribers, reduced subscriber growth, reduced usage per subscriber and introduction of new regulations, restrictions, or litigation. The radio emissions from our cellular handsets and base stations comply with the electromagnetic safety guidelines of Japan and guidelines by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, which are endorsed by the WHO. The WHO has also stated that if the level of the radio emission from mobile devices is lower than the international guidelines, it would not affect the health of their users and others. Research and studies are ongoing and we are actively attempting to confirm the safety of wireless telecommunication, but there can be no assurance that further research and studies will demonstrate that there is no interrelation between radio wave emissions and health problems. Furthermore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications and the Electromagnetic Compatibility Conference Japan have confirmed that some electronic medical devices are affected by the electromagnetic interference from cellular phones as well as other portable radio transmitters. We are working to ensure that our subscribers are sufficiently aware of these precautions when using cellular phones. There is a possibility that modifications to regulations and new regulations or restrictions could limit our ability to expand our market or our subscription base or otherwise adversely affect us. Our parent company, NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION (NTT), could exercise influence that may not be in the interests of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2013, NTT owned 66.65% of our outstanding voting shares. While being subject to the conditions for fair competition established by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (“MPT,” currently the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, or “MIC”) in April 1992, NTT retains the right to control our management as a majority shareholder, including the right to appoint directors. Currently, although we conduct our day-to-day operations independently of NTT and its other subsidiaries, certain important matters are discussed with, or reported to, NTT. As such, NTT could take actions that are in its best interests but may not be in the interests of our other shareholders. Risks Relating to the Shares and the ADSs Future sales of our shares by NTT or by us may adversely affect the trading price of our shares and ADSs. As of March 31, 2013, NTT owned 66.65% of our outstanding voting shares. Under Japanese law, NTT, like any other shareholder, generally is able to dispose of our shares freely on the Tokyo Stock Exchange or otherwise. Additionally, our board of directors is authorized to issue 144,480,000 additional shares generally without any shareholder approval. The sale or issuance or the potential for sale or issuance of such shares could have an adverse impact on the market price of our shares. There are restrictions on your ability to withdraw shares from the depositary receipt facility. Each ADS represents the right to receive 1/100th of a share of common stock. Therefore, pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement with our depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon, in order to withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs must surrender for cancellation and withdrawal of shares, ADRs evidencing 100 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR will bear a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs will be unable to withdraw fractions of shares from the depositary or receive any cash settlement in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares. In addition, although the ADSs themselves may be transferred in any lots pursuant to the deposit agreement, the ability to trade the underlying shares may be limited. However, we intend to change the ratio of ADSs to underlying shares in accordance with our upcoming stock split, pursuant to which, effective October 1, 2013, each of our common shares will be split at a ratio of 1:100. Accordingly, we intend that, on and after October 1, 2013 (U.S. EST), each ADS will represent the right to receive one share of common stock. 15 Table of Contents Holders of ADRs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADRs do not have the same rights as shareholders and accordingly cannot exercise rights of shareholders against us. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore only it can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited shares. In certain cases, we may not ask The Bank of New York Mellon to ask holders of ADSs for instructions as to how they wish their shares voted. Even if we ask The Bank of New York Mellon to ask holders of ADSs for such instructions, it may not be possible for The Bank of New York Mellon to obtain these instructions from ADS holders in time for The Bank of New York Mellon to vote in accordance with such instructions. The Bank of New York Mellon is only obliged to try, as far as practical, and subject to Japanese law and our Articles of Incorporation, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited shares as holders of ADSs instruct. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine the accounting books and records of the Company, or exercise appraisal rights. U.S. investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing a judgment against us or our directors, executive officers or audit & supervisory board members. We are a limited liability, joint stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of our directors, executive officers and audit & supervisory board members reside in Japan. All or substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. Courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from rights of shareholders in jurisdictions within the United States. Our Articles of Incorporation, Regulations of the Board of Directors and the Companies Act of Japan (Kaishaho) govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may be different from those that would apply to a company incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction within the United States. Our shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate. The customary dividend payout practice and relevant regulatory regime of publicly listed companies in Japan may differ from that followed in foreign markets. While we may announce forecasts of year-end and interim dividends prior to the record date, these forecasts are not legally binding. The actual payment of year-end dividends requires a resolution of our shareholders. If the shareholders adopt such a resolution, the year-end dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as March 31 by our Articles of Incorporation. However, such a resolution of our shareholders is usually made at an ordinary general meeting of shareholders held in June. The payment of interim dividends requires a resolution of our board of directors. If the board adopts such a resolution, the dividend payment is made to shareholders as of the applicable record date, which is currently specified as September 30 by our Articles of Incorporation. However, the board usually does not adopt a resolution with respect to an interim dividend until September 30. Shareholders of record as of an applicable record date may sell shares after the record date in anticipation of receiving a certain dividend payment based on the previously announced forecasts. However, since these 16 Table of Contents forecasts are not legally binding and resolutions to pay dividends are usually not adopted until after the record date, our shareholders of record on record dates for year-end or interim dividends may not receive the dividend they anticipate. 