Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures 2 PART I Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements related to future events and our future performance within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Annual Report are forward looking. We use words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “future” and “intends” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management’s current expectations, plans or projections and are inherently uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management’s expectations, plans or projections. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations are described in the section entitled “Business — Risk Factors” This section, along with other sections of this Annual Report, describe some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our common stock. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are urged, however, to review the factors set forth in reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless the context requires otherwise in this Annual Report the terms “we,” “us” and “our” refer to J.L Halsey Corporation and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview J.L. Halsey Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Lyris Technologies, Inc. (“Lyris”), Uptilt, Inc. (d/b/a “EmailLabs”), ClickTracks Analytics, Inc. (“ClickTracks”), and Hot Banana Software, Inc. (“Hot Banana”) is a leading digital marketing technology and services firm. Our email marketing software and services provide clients with solutions for creating, managing and delivering online, permission-based direct marketing programs, newsletters, discussion groups and other digital communications to clients whose email lists require specialized technology in order to effectively communicate with their members and customers. We offer our email solutions in two forms: as software that is downloaded and installed on customers’ computers, and as a hosted solution in which customers use our software through an internet connection. Through ClickTracks and Hot Banana, we also offer website analytics software and services, and website content management software and services. On August 18, 2006, we acquired ClickTracks and Hot Banana. ClickTracks is a Web analytics provider based in Santa Cruz, California, and Hot Banana is an e-marketing Web content management company based in Ontario, Canada. ClickTracks’ web analytics software and services provide clients with leading solutions for analyzing the behavior of visitors to their websites and managing pay-per-click (PPC) campaigns. We offer our analytics solutions in two forms: as software that is downloaded and installed on customers’ computers, and as a hosted solution in which customers use our software through an internet connection. Hot Banana is a Web Content Management Suite (Web CMS) that assists marketers in managing a Web site’s content creation, publishing and optimization process. Clients use Hot Banana to achieve greater efficiencies and realize more revenue through more efficient control of their corporate web sites, intranets, extranets, landing pages and micro marketing sites. Hot Banana sells its software on an installed basis and as a hosted solution in which the customer uses the software through an internet connection. Our Products and Services Email Marketing ListManager. Corporations, government agencies, not-for-profit organizations, political campaigns, universities, and other groups and organizations have large lists of people with whom they want to communicate by email. These lists can range from hundreds to thousands to millions of email addresses. For the past thirteen years, Lyris has developed and licensed software, called ListManager, which can manage these email address lists. This software enables customers to develop, send and monitor complex email mailings reliably. The software also permits organizations to design email campaigns that are customized to their members’ preferences. 3 Lyris offers hosted email marketing solutions based on the ListManager platform under two brands: ListHosting and SparkList. These services enable clients to create, send and monitor email campaigns with only a web browser and without the need for their own engineering and equipment support. For these clients, email administration and security are outsourced and they can manage mailing lists, as well as direct marketing campaigns, newsletters and discussion groups, while supported by Lyris’ data facility and technical staff. Over ninety percent (90%) of Lyris’ revenues come from the licensing of ListManager software, the sale of support and maintenance services for ListManager software and from the sale of the use of ListManager software on a hosted basis. EmailLabs. For the past eight years, EmailLabs has developed and licensed software called EmailLabs, which manages email lists similar to those managed by Lyris. This software enables customers to develop, send and monitor complex email mailings reliably and to customize the design of the mailings to their members’ preferences. Customers obtain the benefits of EmailLabs functionality primarily by logging onto EmailLabs’ servers via the internet on a hosted basis. Over ninety-seven percent (97%) of EmailLabs’ revenue comes from the sale of the use of EmailLabs on a hosted basis, and from related support and maintenance services. Web Analytics Software. For the past five years, ClickTracks has developed and licensed web analytics software. ClickTracks offers three different types of products, all of which enable customers to track and report on basic statistics about the behavior of visitors to their websites. These products use the same code base and are branded Optimizer, Professional, and JDC. ClickTracks also sells software to agencies and ISPs (internet service providers) which run the software on behalf of other customers. Most of ClickTracks’ revenue comes from the sale of installed software, the sale of maintenance and support services, and from the sale of the use of ClickTracks’ software on a hosted basis. Web Content Management Software. Hot Banana, which sells two products, is the successor organization to a company founded in 2001. The first is Hot Banana Web Content Management Suite, which enables customers to manage content across their different web properties more easily, including corporate web sites, intranets, extranets, landing pages and micro marketing sites. The second is Hot Banana Active Marketing Suite, which integrates several features including content management, web analytics, email marketing, and event registration to enable marketing professionals to effectively plan and execute web-centric marketing campaigns. Most of Hot Banana’s revenue comes from the sale of software on an installed basis together with professional services, including creative design, content creation, and other web site development services. Other Products. In November 2004, Lyris acquired Piper Software Company and its EmailAdvisor product, which is sold on a hosted basis. EmailAdvisor is a deliverability monitoring tool that helps facilitate the delivery of legitimate email while taking into account the complexity of different email programs. With the tremendous increase in spam (see “U.S. and Foreign Government Regulation” below), many ISPs, network administrators and others now deploy anti-spam filters to prevent spam from entering their email inboxes. Many of these anti-spam filters unfortunately block legitimate emails that people want to receive. EmailAdvisor helps email senders minimize the chance that legitimate email is wrongly blocked. Lyris also sells email security and antispam software. This product, called MailShield, is a server-based email filtering application that allows organizations to proactively manage and prevent unauthorized inbound and outbound email. MailShield is used at the enterprise level to block spam and email viruses and prevent relay abuse by which spammers exploit servers to send their mail, and also to filter content contained in outbound email Finally, Lyris offers another software product called MailEngine. MailEngine is an SMTP Mail Transfer Agent (“MTA”). This is the software that actually sends the email out through the internet’s mail system. Companies partner MailEngine with their own internal systems to send high volumes of email. Customers Over 8,000 customers have purchased our software products and more than 2,000 customers use our software on a hosted basis. Our customers include several departments of the U.S. government, national political campaigns, local governments and political campaigns, Fortune 500 and smaller companies including many top software companies, and some of the largest and most reputable academic organizations, charitable organizations and athletic teams. 4 Strategy Our primary goal is to create value for our stockholders by creating and delivering efficiently and profitably a leading set of products to our customers. We hope to sell products and services at a quality and price points that deliver value for our customers. To accomplish these goals and objectives, our aim is to become a leader in developing and selling technology solutions for digital marketers, primarily focusing on small and medium-size organizations. We intend to achieve this objective by improving and diversifying our current product offerings through research and development, by unifying our products to offer a bundled offering incorporating next-generation technology, and through select strategic acquisitions. We believe an opportunity exists to provide a wider array of services to our clients and in particular, provide more integrated solutions that satisfy the needs of our customers. Because we operate in a fragmented market, characterized by a large number of small competitors and a handful of medium-sized competitors, we believe there may be an opportunity to create stockholder value by acquiring competing and complementary businesses or by partnering to include their technology in an integrated suite. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing activities are based in our Emeryville, California headquarters with additional personnel in Menlo Park and Santa Cruz, California and in Barrie, Ontario. The sales team is structured by product, with teams focused on the respective brands. The sales team also includes a group of account managers who focus on retention and developing new business from our largest clients. As of June 30, 2007, our sales and marketing organization consisted of 53 employees. Our marketing efforts consist of trade shows, business development activities including technology, agency and referral partnerships, limited print advertising, and internet advertising including “pay-per-click” (PPC) marketing on major search engines such as Google and Yahoo. Customer Service, Support and Operations We believe that continuous data center operations and quality customer service and support are crucial to our success in selling software and hosting services. We currently lease space and services in secure co-location data facilities in Fremont, Novato, Santa Clara and Menlo Park, California and in Parsippany, New Jersey. These facilities have redundant electrical generators and UPS power supplies, fire suppression systems, and 24x7 physical security that protect the facilities. Our network software constantly monitors our systems and notifies systems engineers if any unexpected conditions arise. We provide customer service and support in differing levels depending on the product purchased. ListManager software customers receive “included support,” which provides free web access to our online support databases and thirty days of email assistance. Customers may also purchase two levels of paid support. The first level, referred to as Essential Support, provides email assistance and free access to minor upgrades during the term of the support contract. The second level, referred to as Comprehensive Support, includes email and telephone support (subject to certain limits) and free access to minor and major upgrades for one year. For our hosted email offerings, including EmailLabs, SparkList and Lyris ListHosting, we offer free access to our online support databases and web seminars on the fundamentals of our hosted products as well as on the basics of email marketing and communication. Upgrades are automatically deployed to clients since the service is provided using our servers on a hosted basis. EmailLabs’ standard contract allows for two hours of phone support per month, with a fee for additional hours used. In addition, each client goes through a standard one to two-hour personalized training session. Additional customized training sessions are available at a charge. ClickTracks provides technical support via an online ticketing system to all existing customers under a current maintenance contract (based on named key contacts). Normal support hours are 6am to 6pm US Pacific Time, and 8am to 5pm in the UK. ClickTracks typically responds on the same day that questions are received. ClickTracks periodically releases software updates with basic product improvements. All customers can download these updates, free of charge, through ClickTracks’ website. Major upgrades are included in the regular yearly maintenance contract. Major upgrades include all new features and enhancements to the software (beyond the product updates available to all users). Customers who require more personalized technical support can also purchase the Premium Support package. Premium Support guarantees four-hour response time and priority routing of issues to an engineer. Premium Support is 30% of the license price per year. 5 Hot Banana provides application support for phone and email queries to all clients. Other online help tools also are provided. Each client goes through an implementation process for a fee, and additional customization training sessions are also available at a charge. Upgrades to the Hot Banana product are automatically deployed to clients at no charge since it is delivered as a hosted service. As of June 30, 2007, our operations, customer service and support organization had 28 employees. Technology Our products are written in several computing languages, including Flex, Cold Fusion, C, C++, C#, and TCL, among others. They are designed to run in conjunction with a number of different commercial database servers, including mySQL, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle. Lyris’ and EmailLabs’ platforms are designed to handle hundreds of thousands of emails per hour, while emphasizing reliability, availability and security. They automatically handle bounces due to invalid email addresses and track user activity after receipt of the emails, such as open detection, clickthrough tracking and purchase tracking. The information gathered from user activities is digested into reports and can be used for initiating further email campaigns. Our security systems control access to internal systems and data via the internet. Internally, log-ins and passwords are maintained for all systems, with access control granted on an individual basis to only the required areas for which the recipient is responsible. Firewalls prevent unauthorized access from outside or access to confidential data on the inside. We rely on certain encryption and authentication technologies licensed from third parties to provide secure transmission of confidential information. Research and Development Because we compete in technology markets, we must try to continually innovate as fast or faster than our competition. We are committed to supporting and updating our core technology and to expanding our product offerings to provide a leading set of products that meet the needs of our customers. We are continually reinvesting resources in product development. Historically, we have released major upgrades to our flagship products every 12 to 16 months and have augmented these offerings with periodic minor upgrades. As of June 30, 2007, we have approximately 61 engineers who are engaged in maintaining our current products and researching, developing, testing and deploying new versions of our software. Competition General. We operate in extremely competitive technology markets. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources (financial, technical, marketing, human capital and other resources) than we do. In general, the barriers to entry in software and hosting markets are considered to be low. New competitors can and will enter the markets in which we compete. We believe the following factors are important or may become important in the competition for customers: · Product feature set; · Ease of use of the products; · Ability to integrate with other applications that our clients use to interact with their customers such as Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”), enterprise marketing management (“EMM”), Web analytics, Enterprise Resource Planning packages and consumer and business databases; · Performance and scalability; · Price and total cost of ownership; · Stability and reliability; · Quality of customer service and support; · Brand name and reputation; and · Ability to provide services in a secure environment and maintain the confidentiality of customer data. 6 Email Marketing Markets. The market for email marketing software and hosted email marketing services is fragmented with many participants, and we have several types of competitors. Some of these competitors offer an on-premise software solution, others offer a hosted service, and still others offer both, as we do. There are many small, privately-held competitors, particularly on the hosted side. Many competitors price their products below ours. At the higher end of the email marketing market, there are a number of large companies that compete with either an integrated offering or that compete with large staffs of people who help customize the applications for their customers’ needs. Among the companies that include email marketing in an integrated offering are CRM software vendors such as Siebel, EMM software vendors such as Unica, outsourced e-commerce solution providers such as Digital River, database marketers such as Experian (which owns CheetahMail), Axciom (which owns Digital Impact) and Harte Hanks (which owns PostFuture). Alliance Data Systems’ Epsilon division offers email marketing services under the brand names BigFoot Interactive and DartMail as part of an integrated solution. Other competitors include Silverpop, Responsys, Exact Target, Constant Contact and SubscriberMail. Email Security and Anti-Spam Markets. In the email security and anti-spam markets, there are a number of very large competitors and several well-funded start-up competitors. Large companies who operate in this market include Symantec, Cisco, McAfee, Microsoft, Tumbleweed and Trend Micro. Additionally, many other privately held companies compete in this space, many of whom have raised significant funding from private investors. Some of the larger privately-held companies include Proofpoint, MXLogic, Sophos, Kaspersky Labs, and Cloudmark. Other competitors provide enabling anti-spam technology rather than an end-user solution. Examples of such companies include Mailshell, Commtouch and MailFrontier (acquired by SonicWall). Email security and anti-spam markets are among the most competitive of all markets in the high tech space. Web Analytics Market. In the web analytics market, there are a number of large competitors and several well-funded start-up competitors. Large companies who operate in this market include Visual Sciences, WebTrends, Omniture, CoreMetrics, and Urchin (acquired by Google). Additionally, many other smaller, privately held companies compete in this space, including Indextools, OneStat, and Manticore Technology. The web analytics market is among the most competitive of all technology markets. Web Content Management Market. In the web content management market, there are a number of very large competitors and several well-funded start-up competitors. Large companies who operate in this market include EMC (through its Documentum subsidiary), Interwoven, Silver Lake Software, Hummingbird, and Vignette Software. Additionally, many other smaller privately held companies compete in this space, including CrownPeak, Clickability, Ektron, PaperThin, and FatWire. Intellectual Property We have filed several patent applications. One covers some of the technology developed for EmailAdvisor, while four are related to technology and processes developed for ClickTracks. We enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants, and other third parties in order to try to protect our trade secrets and intellectual property. In recent years, many software companies have filed patents covering their technologies. Many of these patents have yet to be litigated. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology and may receive and enforce patents on such technology. We are aware of several issued or pending patents that may be asserted against us. U.S. and Foreign Government Regulation Email has been the subject of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign governments. In 2003, the US Congress passed the CAN-SPAM Act. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 establishes the United States’ first national standards for the sending of commercial email and requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to enforce its provisions. CAN-SPAM defines spam as “any electronic mail message the primary purpose of which is the commercial advertisement or promotion of a commercial product or service (including content on an Internet website operated for a commercial purpose).” It exempts “transactional or relationship messages.” The bill permits email marketers to send unsolicited commercial email as long as it contains all of the following: an opt-out mechanism; a valid subject line and header (routing) information; and the legitimate physical address of the mailer, among other requirements. If a user opts out, a sender has ten days to remove the address. The legislation also prohibits the sale or other transfer of an email address after an opt-out request. 7 We believe strongly that emailers should send email only to those who have requested or given permission (twice) for email to be sent. We do not permit any of our hosted customers to send SPAM, and we require by contract that our software purchasers and hosted clients comply with CAN-SPAM. Additionally, Lyris sells an anti-spam solution, called MailShield. Corporate Background Acquisition of Lyris On May 12, 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Lyris. The purchase price was $30.7 million, which included cash payments of $25.1 million (including acquisition costs and working capital adjustments of $1.2 million) and $5.6 million in the form of a promissory note payable, subject to Lyris’ achieving specified revenue targets, on the second anniversary of the closing date with interest equal to 10% per annum. The specified revenue targets stated in the promissory note were attained. On March 31, 2007, this note was amended to extend the maturity date to November 12, 2008. In addition, the amendment provided for the following payments (constituting both principal and interest): (a) $1,000,000 due May 12, 2007; (b) $1,453,447 due February 12, 2008; and (c) $4,687,666 due November 12, 2008. We paid $1,000,000 on May 14, 2007. With this acquisition, we became a leading email marketing company with over 5,000 customers worldwide. Acquisition of EmailLabs On October 11, 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of EmailLabs for $24.5 million (including acquisition costs and working capital adjustments of $612,000). Of this purchase price, $19.5 million was paid in cash at closing of which $2.3 million was funded by EmailLabs’ available cash. $500,000 of the purchase price was held back as security against EmailLabs meeting certain agreed upon minimum working capital requirements. This holdback, less the final working capital adjustment, was paid during the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The agreement also includes contingent merger consideration consisting of two equal earn-out payments of $1.725 million due on the first and second anniversary of the closing date if EmailLabs achieves specified revenue targets. We paid the first $1.725 million installment to the former EmailLabs’ stockholders on October 13, 2006. EmailLabs has achieved all revenue targets and, as a result, we have accrued the liability for the second installment in the current portion of our Balance Sheet at June 30, 2007. With this acquisition, we extended our role in the email marketing market. Acquisition of ClickTracks On August 18, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of ClickTracks for approximately $8.5 million in cash and $2.8 million of our common stock issued to certain security holders of ClickTracks. Pursuant to the purchase agreement, we agreed to additional payments totaling approximately $3.8 million in the event ClickTracks achieves future revenue targets and working capital adjustments. In accordance with an agreement between us and John Marshall, the former President of ClickTracks Analytics, Inc. dated March 13, 2007, Mr. Marshall, acting in his capacity as the representative of the former stockholders of ClickTracks, acknowledged that the revenue targets for the initial post-closing payment would not be met. Then, pursuant to an agreement between us and Mr. Marshall (again acting as representative of the former ClickTracks stockholders), dated June 8, 2007, Mr. Marshall waived all rights to any future payments under the original purchase agreement. On July 2, 2007, we purchased 2,226,006 shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $0.75 per share, (or $1,669,504.50 in the aggregate) from John Marshall, the former president of ClickTracks in accordance with an Agreement that was entered into between us and Mr. Marshall on June 8, 2007. These shares represented the number of shares Mr. Marshall received from us on August 18, 2006, as part of our acquisition of ClickTracks. Acquisition of Hot Banana On August 18, 2006, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Hot Banana, for approximately $1.9 million Canadian ($1.8 million U.S. based on the then-applicable exchange rate), with additional installments of up to $750,000 Canadian ($670,661 U.S.) if Hot Banana achieves specified revenue and technology integration targets, and up to an additional $500,000 Canadian ($447,107 U.S.) payable subject to working capital and other adjustments. In March 2007 we paid approximately $94,000 Canadian ($81,000 U.S.) and in May 2007 we paid approximately $94,000 Canadian ($86,000 U.S.) to the former owners of Hot Banana for the first and second installments of the technology integration earn-out. In April 2007, we paid approximately $336,000 Canadian ($299,000 U.S.) to the former owners of Hot Banana for the final working capital adjustment. We believe that it is probable that Hot Banana’s performance will result in contingent payments for revenue targets to the sellers of Hot Banana and, as a result, we have recorded $487,858 as a liability in the current and long-term portions of our Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2007. 8 Discontinued operations We are the successor to NovaCare, Inc. (“NovaCare”), which was a national leader in physical rehabilitation services, orthotics and prosthetics and employee services. The changes to Medicare reimbursement in the late 1990’s had deleterious effects on us and our competitors and customers. The prior operating business most affected by the Medicare changes was the long-term care services segment in which NovaCare provided therapists to skilled nursing facilities. This business was disposed of in fiscal 1999 with the shutdown of certain of its operations in the Western United States during the third fiscal quarter and the sale of the remaining operations on June 1, 1999. NovaCare’s former outpatient services segment was disposed of through the sales of its orthotics and prosthetics (O&P) and physical rehabilitation and occupational health (PROH) businesses. The O&P business was sold to Hangar Orthopedic Group, Inc. in July of 1999 and the PROH business was sold to Select Medical Corporation in November of 1999. NovaCare’s former employee services segment was disposed of through the sale of NovaCare’s interest in NovaCare Employee Services (“NCES”) in October of 1999 to a subsidiary of Plato Holdings, Inc. as part of a tender offer by Plato for all of NCES’s outstanding shares. With cash raised from the sales of these businesses, we repaid all of NovaCare’s bank debt in the summer of 1999, and in January of 2000 we retired NovaCare’s publicly-traded subordinated debt. We sold the NovaCare name as part of the sale of the PROH business and we subsequently changed our name to NAHC, Inc. (“NAHC”). On June 18, 2002, in a transaction approved by our stockholders at a special meeting, NAHC merged with and into Halsey, its wholly-owned subsidiary. The purpose of the merger between NAHC and Halsey was to implement transfer restrictions on our common stock in order to preserve our federal income tax net operating losses. Prior to the acquisitions of Lyris, EmailLabs, ClickTracks and Hot Banana, we spent several years maximizing remaining assets, including old accounts receivable, Medicare receivables and appeals, and tax items, and minimizing liabilities retained after the sales of the operating businesses. We have collected virtually all of the receivables, other than amounts which are the subject of litigation or arbitration or that have been written off, and also resolved all but one litigation matter remaining from our prior operations. None of our current executives or directors were associated with us prior to, or at the time of, the sale of the NovaCare healthcare operating businesses in 1999. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following section describes risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risks. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, or for other reasons, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is substantially dependent on the market for email marketing. More than 90% of our revenue comes from the market for email marketing — from the licensing of software, the sale of support and maintenance contracts related to our software, and from the sale of hosted services. The remainder of our revenue, with the acquisitions of ClickTracks and Hot Banana, comes from Web analytics and content management. The markets for email marketing, web analytics, marketing content management and related services are relatively new and still evolving. There can be no certainty regarding how or whether these markets will develop, or whether they will experience any contractions. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The traditional direct marketing industry has typically generated lower revenues during the summer months and higher revenues during the calendar year-end months. We believe our business is also affected by similar revenue fluctuations, but our limited operating history and the impact of our acquisitions and the integration of those acquisitions make it difficult to predict the magnitude of these effects. Because we may experience these effects, investors (and, possibly, securities analysts) may not be able to predict our quarterly or annual operating results. If we fail to meet expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. If businesses and consumers fail to accept online direct marketing as a means to attract and retain new customers, demand for our services may not develop and the price of our stock could decline. The market for online direct marketing services is relatively new, rapidly evolving and our business may be harmed if sufficient demand for our services does not develop. Our current and planned services are very different from the traditional methods that many of our clients have historically used to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships. As a result, customers and potential customers may be reticent to try new technologies and new solutions, and the demand for our services may not develop or may decline, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results depend on consumer use of email and the Internet. If consumers do not continue to use email and the Internet, demand for our services may not develop and the price of our stock could decline. Our current and planned services enable customers to use email and the internet to increase revenue and traffic from, and communication with, their online audiences, customers and members. Our ability to serve these customers therefore depends on their audiences continuing to use both email and the Internet as communications media. If consumer adoption of either technology declines, demand for our services may not develop or may decline. The growth of the email marketing market depends on the continued growth and effectiveness of anti-spam products. Adoption of email as a communications medium depends on the ability to prevent junk mail, or “spam,” from overwhelming a subscriber’s electronic mailbox. In recent years, many companies have evolved to address this issue and filter unwanted messages before they reach customers’ mailboxes. In response, spammers have become more sophisticated and have also begun using junk messages as a means for fraud. Email protection companies in turn have evolved to address this new threat. However, if their products fail to be effective against spam, adoption of email as a communications tool will decline, which would adversely affect the market for our services. 10 The online direct marketing industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our services may decline. The market for online direct marketing is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and experiencing rapid technological change. Intense competition may result in price reductions, reduced sales, reduced gross margins and operating margins, and loss of market share. Our principal competitors include providers of online direct marketing solutions such as DoubleClick (acquired by Google), Responsys, Experian, Silverpop, Bigfoot Interactive, Exact Target, Constant Contact and InfoUSA, web analytics providers such as Omniture, Core Metrics, Visual Sciences and WebTrends, and Urchin (acquired by Google), web content management providers such as Interwoven and Vignette Software, Silver Lake Software and many other smaller privately held companies, including Indextools, OneStat, and Manticore Technology. The loss of a client due to service quality or technology problems could result in reputational harm to us and, as a result, increase the effect of competition and negatively impact our ability to attract new clients. Many of these potential competitors have broad distribution channels and may bundle complementary products or services. Such bundled products include, but are not limited to, web analytics, data mining, customer relationship management (CRM) systems and professional services. If we are not able to bundle complementary services or continue to expand our distribution capabilities, our results may suffer. In addition, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our prices. In the future, we may experience competition from Internet service providers, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. These businesses could develop, market or resell a number of online direct marketing solutions. These potential competitors may also choose to enter, or have already entered, the market for online direct marketing by acquiring one of our existing competitors or by forming strategic alliances with a competitor. As a result of future competition, the demand for our services could substantially decline. Any of these occurrences could harm our ability to compete effectively. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technology or evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in client requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products and services, or develop entirely new products and services, our products and services may become obsolete, less marketable or less competitive, and our business will be harmed. The ability to add new enhancements, new features and new services depends on several factors, including having sufficient financial, technical and human resources and completing such work in a timely fashion. Failure to produce timely acceptable new features will significantly impair our ability to retain existing revenue and earn new revenue. If we fail to market new features and migrate customers to new versions of our system, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. The development of proprietary technology and service enhancements and the migration of customers to new technology entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We might not be successful in marketing and supporting recently released versions of our technology and services on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, even if new technology and services are developed and released, they might not achieve market acceptance. Also, if we are not successful in a smooth migration of customers to new or enhanced technology and services, we could lose customers. 11 We face significant threats from new entrants to our business. Barriers to entry in software markets are low. Privately-backed and public companies could choose to enter our space and compete directly with us, or indirectly by offering substitute solutions. The result could be decreased demand or pricing for our services, longer sales cycles, or a requirement to make significant incremental investments in research and development to match these entrants’ new technologies. If any of these happens, it could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. The majority of our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, and if our customers elect not to renew these agreements, our revenues may decrease. Typically, our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, which are generally six months to one year in length, with no obligation to renew these agreements. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including the services and prices offered by our competitors, new technologies offered by others, consolidation in our customer base or if some of our customers cease their operations. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products and services and cause us to lose customers. Because our products and services are complex, they may have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them, which could harm our reputation and business. In particular, our anti-spam products may identify some legitimate emails as unwanted or unsolicited spam, or we may not be able to filter out a sufficiently high percentage of unsolicited or unwanted messages sent to the email accounts of customers. Complex software products like ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, we may be unable to respond in a prompt manner, or at all, to new methods of attacking a messaging system, such as new spamming techniques. We have from time to time found defects in products, and errors in existing products may be detected in the future. Any such errors, defects or other performance problems could impact the perceived reliability of our products and services and hurt our reputation. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew or terminate their subscriptions and future sales could be lost. If the delivery of our email messages is limited or blocked, then the amount we may be able to charge clients for producing and sending their campaigns may be reduced and clients may discontinue their use of our services. Internet service providers are able to block messages from reaching their users. Recent releases of Internet service provider software and the implementation of stringent new policies by Internet service providers make it more difficult to deliver emails on behalf of customers. We continually improve our own technology and work with Internet service providers to improve our ability to successfully deliver emails. However, if Internet service providers materially limit or halt the delivery of our emails, or if we fail to deliver emails in such a way as to be compatible with these companies’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the amount we may be able to charge clients for producing and sending their online direct marketing campaigns may be reduced and clients may discontinue their use of our services. In addition, the effectiveness of email marketing may decrease as a result of increased customer resistance to email marketing in general. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events and any of these events could result in an interruption of our ability to execute clients’ online direct marketing campaigns. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our data centers and hardware systems. The data centers and hardware systems are located in California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. The data centers and hardware systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If any of these events results in damage to our data centers or systems, we may be unable to execute clients’ hosted online direct marketing campaigns until the damage is repaired, and may accordingly lose clients and revenues. In addition, subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may incur substantial costs in repairing any damage. 12 System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings. We provide email marketing and delivery services to our clients and end-users through our proprietary technology and client management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some clients to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Some factors that could lead to interruptions in customer service include: operator negligence; improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; physical and electronic break-ins; misappropriation; computer viruses and similar events; power loss; computer systems failures; and Internet and telecommunications failures. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. A rapid expansion of our network and systems could cause our network or systems to fail or cause our network to lose data. In the future, we may need to expand our network and systems at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. We may suddenly require additional bandwidth for which we have not adequately planned. We may secure an extremely large customer, group of customers, or experience demands for growth by an existing customer or set of customers that would require significant system resources. Our network or systems may not be capable of meeting the demand for increased capacity, or we may incur additional unanticipated expenses to accommodate such capacity constraints. In addition, we may lose valuable data or our network may temporarily shut down if we fail to expand our network to meet future requirements. Any disruption in our network processing or loss of data may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers. If we are unable to safeguard the confidential information in our data warehouse, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. We currently store confidential customer information in a secure data warehouse owned by a third party. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to prevent unauthorized individuals from gaining access to this data warehouse. If any compromise or breach of security were to occur, it could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. Any unauthorized access to our servers could result in the misappropriation of confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our services. It is also possible that one of our employees could attempt to misuse confidential customer information, exposing us to liability. In addition, our reputation may be harmed if we lose customer information maintained in our data warehouse due to systems interruptions or other reasons. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if third parties develop superior intellectual property, third parties could use our intellectual property without our consent and prevent us from using their technology. Our ability to successfully compete is substantially dependent upon internally developed technology and intellectual property, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law, as well as contractual obligations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use our proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We are one of several companies rapidly building new technologies in this industry. It is possible that a third party could be awarded a patent that applies to some portion of our business. If this occurs, we may be required to incur substantial legal fees, cease using the technology or pay significant licensing fees for such use. We are aware of several patents that may be asserted against us. 13 We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to sell or continue to support subscriptions to our products and services would be limited and our operating results could be harmed. We rely on non-exclusive software license rights from third parties in technologies that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of our products. Our licenses often require the payment of royalties or other consideration to third parties. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies, and we do not know whether these third-party technologies will continue to be licensed to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our loss of license to, or the inability to support, maintain and enhance, software products we license from third parties could result in our customers having to upgrade their Lyris or EmailLabs products. In addition, a loss of license from third parties could lead to increased costs and delays or reductions in our product development, sales and support until we are able to develop functionally equivalent software or identify and obtain licenses to alternative third party software with comparable functionality, which we may be unable to do. As a result, our margins, market share and operating results could be significantly harmed. If any of these events occurs, our business and operating results could be harmed. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that we are infringing their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all. Because currently pending patent applications are not publicly available for certain periods of time, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a general matter, we do not search patent office files for patents or patent applications that we may possibly infringe. We are aware of several patents that potentially may be asserted against us. From time to time we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that we have, in some way, violated the intellectual property rights of others. Existing lawsuits against others in this industry, as well as any future assertions or prosecutions of claims like these, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. The defense of any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause product enhancement delays or require that we develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We expect that the number of infringement claims in our market will increase as the number of services and competitors in our industry grows. These claims, whether or not successful, could: · divert management’s attention; · result in costly and time-consuming litigation; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; or · require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our subscription agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling in any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. 14 Activities of clients could damage our reputation or give rise to legal claims against us. Clients’ promotion of their products and services may not comply with federal, state and local laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these marketing activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Any claims made against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If we are exposed to this kind of liability, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods, discontinue some services or otherwise expend resources to avoid liability. Our services involve the transmission of information through the Internet. These services could be used to transmit harmful applications, negative messages, unauthorized reproduction of copyrighted material, inaccurate data or computer viruses to end-users in the course of delivery. Any transmission of this kind could damage our reputation or could give rise to legal claims against us. We could spend a significant amount of time and money defending against these legal claims. Regulation of, and uncertainties regarding the application of existing laws and regulations to, online direct marketing and the Internet could prohibit, limit or increase the cost of our business. In December 2003, Congress enacted the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, which regulates the sending of commercial email and pre-empts state laws regulating commercial email. The effect of this legislation on marketers is difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that this or future legislation regarding commercial email will not harm our business. In addition, many states have passed laws that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than CAN-SPAM, particularly Utah and Michigan. It is not clear to what extent these state laws will in fact be preempted by CAN-SPAM. Our business could be negatively impacted by new laws or regulations applicable to online direct marketing or the Internet or the application of existing laws and regulations to online direct marketing or the Internet. There is a growing body of laws and regulations applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws is uncertain and may take years to resolve. Due to the popularity and wide-spread use of the Internet, it is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted covering issues such as privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, taxation, antitrust, characteristics and quality of services and consumer protection. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may impair the growth of the Internet or online direct marketing, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and prohibit, limit or increase the cost of our doing business. We have acquired all of our operating businesses since May 2005, and we may continue to expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or through business relationships, all of which may divert our management’s attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire competing or complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Our completed acquisitions and any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities, nor can we assure you that we will be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: · issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; · use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; · incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; · incur large charges or substantial liabilities; · encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; 15 · become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; and · encounter unfavorable reactions from investment banking market analysts who disapprove of our completed acquisitions. Failure to properly manage and sustain our expansion efforts could strain our management and other resources. Our ability to successfully offer services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We may try to rapidly and significantly expand the depth and breadth of our service offerings. Failure to properly manage this expansion could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage expansion, we are required to continually: · improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; · install new management information systems; and · train, motivate, retain and manage our employees. We may be unable to install management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To continue to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the new requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates require in order to join us. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Any failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth. We currently are, and in the future expect to continue to be, substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers and to manage our customer relationships. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend in large part on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our service will suffer. 16 If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our current and future services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or limitations on our ability to use cookies may impede our ability to collect information with our technology and reduce the value of that data. Our technology currently uses cookies, which are small files of information placed on an Internet user’s computer, to collect information about the user’s visits to the websites of our customers. Third-party software and our own technology make it easy for users to block or delete our cookies. Several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, block our cookies by default or prompt users to delete or block our cookies. If a large proportion, such as a majority, of users delete or block our cookies, this could undermine the value of the data that we collect for our customers and could negatively impact our ability to deliver accurate reports to our customers, which would harm our business. Changes in web browsers may also encourage users to block cookies. Microsoft, for example, frequently modifies its Internet Explorer web browser. Some modifications by Microsoft could substantially impair our ability to use cookies for data collection purposes. If that happens and we are unable to adapt our technology and practices adequately in response to changes in Microsoft’s technology, then the value of our services will be substantially impaired. Additionally, other technologies could be developed that impede the operation of our services. These developments could prevent us from providing our services to our customers or reduce the value of our services. In addition, laws regulating the use of cookies by us and our customers could also prevent us from providing our services to our customers or require us to employ alternative technology. A European Union Directive currently being implemented by member countries requires us to tell users about cookies placed on their computers, describe how we and our customers will use the information collected and offer users the right to refuse a cookie. Although no European country currently requires consent prior to delivery of a cookie, one or more European countries may do so in the future. If we were required to obtain consent before delivering a cookie or if the use or effectiveness of cookies is limited, we would be required to switch to alternative technologies to collect user profile information, which may not be done on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost or at all. We may not realize expected benefits from our acquisitions. We expect our acquisitions to result in additional net revenues for us. Achieving the benefits of these acquisitions will depend in part on our demonstration to customers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in client service standards. With respect to the integration of personnel, despite our efforts to retain the key employees of acquired businesses, we may not be successful, as competition for qualified management and technical employees in our industry is intense. We may also be perceived to have a different corporate culture and these key employees may not want to work for a larger, publicly-traded company. In addition, competitors may recruit these key employees. As a result, these key employees could leave with little or no prior notice, which could impede the integration process and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with these acquisitions certain key employees have entered into employment agreements or consulting and non-competition agreements that will restrict their ability to compete with us if they leave or at the conclusion of their consulting term. We cannot assure you of the enforceability of these non-competition agreements or that these employees or consultants will continue to work with us under their employment or consulting agreements. 17 Exposure to risks associated with our international operations could unfavorably affect our performance. Hot Banana is based in Ontario, Canada and has significant revenues there. The success and profitability of our international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, tax laws and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which Hot Banana’s business may be denominated. Specifically with currency risks, we do not currently utilize derivative instruments to hedge an exposure to fluctuation in foreign currency, including the Canadian dollar, and our revenues may decrease as a result of such fluctuations. We may need to raise additional capital to achieve our business objectives, which could result in dilution to existing investors or increase our debt obligations. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, the ability to expand our client base and the growth of sales and marketing. In addition, under the terms of the agreements governing our four acquisitions, we are required to make additional payments to the sellers of the businesses if certain conditions are met. We believe that some of these conditions are likely to be met, and, therefore, have classified specified payments on our balance sheet as short-term or long-term debt. Our principal use of cash in the future will be the payment of earn-outs related to our acquisitions and the pay down of debt. Based on our current projections, we believe we will be able to make these payments with our available resources. If however, operating results deteriorate or other adverse events occur, we will not have adequate resources to make these payments and we may be forced to seek additional resources. There is no certainty that we will be able to raise additional equity or other capital, or the terms on which such capital may be raised will be favorable to us. The terms of any new capital may be superior to, or dilutive to, the existing common shareholders. Restrictions in the agreements with our lenders may inhibit our ability to grow. We borrowed money to purchase EmailLabs and Hot Banana. Our agreement with Comerica, N.A., our senior lender, places certain restrictions on us, including restrictions on our total borrowings, our debt to EBITDA ratios, and our ability to buy additional businesses, among other restrictions. Risks related to us and Investment in our Common Stock Internet-related stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress our stock price or cause it to fluctuate significantly. The stock market, and the trading prices of Internet-related companies in particular, have been notably volatile. This volatility is likely to continue in the short-term and is not necessarily related to the operating performance of affected companies. This broad market and industry volatility could significantly reduce the price of our common stock at any time, without regard to our operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price in particular to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations by others or us; · acceptance by consumers of technologies of companies other than us; · the ability to sign new clients and the retention of existing clients; · new products or services that we offer; · competitive developments including new products or services, or new relationships by our competitors; · changes that affect our clients or the viability of their product lines; · conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries; · global unrest and terrorist activities; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other Internet or online e-commerce companies; 18 · required changes in generally accepted accounting principles and disclosures; · our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments or results of operations or other developments related to those acquisitions; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · sales or other transactions involving our common stock. Our executive officers and directors have control over our affairs. As of July 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially own or have options exercisable within 60 days to purchase, in the aggregate, approximately 40.3% of our common stock. The chairman of our board of directors, Mr. William T. Comfort, III, both individually and as general partner of LDN Stuyvie Partnership beneficially owns 36.2% of our common stock. These stockholders together have, and Mr. Comfort himself has, the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. We are a small company without securities analyst coverage at the present time and there is limited trading of our stock. Trading markets for common stock rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts would publish about us or our business. Currently, no securities analysts cover our stock. As a result, we lack visibility in the market. In addition, if one or more analysts initiate coverage with an unattractive rating, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. There is also little liquidity in the trading of our stock and therefore it may be more difficult for investors to sell our common stock. Sales of large blocks of stock may have a significantly greater negative impact because of the lack of liquidity. The stock transfer restrictions implemented in the merger of NAHC, Inc. and J. L. Halsey Corporation may delay or prevent takeover bids by third parties and may delay or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to replace or remove the current management. The shares of common stock issued by us in the merger with our former parent company, NAHC, Inc., are subject to transfer restrictions that, in general, prevent any individual stockholder or group of stockholders from acquiring in excess of 5% of our outstanding common stock. The types of acquisition transactions that we may undertake will be limited unless our board of directors waives the transfer restrictions. The transfer restrictions also may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management because no single stockholder may cast votes for more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock, unless that stockholder held more than 5% of our common stock before the merger or our board of directors specifically authorizes the acquisition of more than 5% of our common stock. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our NOL carryforwards. Our ability to use our potential tax benefits derived from our net operating loss carryforwards in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we generate insufficient taxable income in future years, the NOLs will not be needed or used and therefore will provide no benefit to us. If we experience a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, we will not be able to realize the benefit of our net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. There are uncertainties related to legacy assets and liabilities. We continue to manage a relatively small number of legacy assets and liabilities remaining from the period prior to the sale of our operating businesses in 1999. These remaining legacy assets consist of restricted cash, old receivables that are the subject of litigation or arbitration, and appeals of Medicare related claims. We have established significant reserves against these assets because of the uncertainty regarding our ability to collect them. We are defending one remaining lawsuit against us. Our management believes that we should prevail in this case. However, there is uncertainty and cost related to the claim. The outcome of this matter is not possible to predict and the current reserves include only estimates of the costs of litigating, but do not reflect the possibility of a settlement, an adverse ruling or a judgment against us. For more information regarding this lawsuit, please see Note 18 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition to the provisions to protect our NOLs, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent us from having a change of control or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: · establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; · provide that directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; · require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; · provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Insurance We currently purchase insurance policies to cover the ongoing liability and property risks arising out of our current operations. Although we purchased professional liability tail coverage insurance for periods prior to the sales of our previous healthcare businesses, the insurer, PHICO Insurance Company, has been declared insolvent and is no longer able to pay claims on our behalf (see “Legal Proceedings”). Employees At June 30, 2007, we had 162 employees. Our employees are not represented by any labor union and we are not aware of any current activity to organize any of our employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 