ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS West Bancorporation’s business is conducted primarily through West Bank and WB Capital. The greatest risks for investment in our stock involve West Bank because it comprises over ninety percent of our operations and assets. West Bank is subject to all the general risks that confront community banks. In addition, West Bank and West Bancorporation are subject to the following particular risks. 11 Our loan portfolio. The largest component of West Bank’s income is interest received on loans. West Bank’s loan portfolio includes a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, and construction or land development loans. West Bank’s typical commercial borrower is a small- or medium-sized privately-owned Iowa business person or entity. Our commercial loans typically have greater credit risks than residential mortgage or consumer loans because they often have larger balances, and repayment usually depends on the borrowers’ successful business operations. Commercial loans also involve some additional risk because they generally are not fully repaid over the loan period and thus usually require refinancing or a large payoff at maturity. When the general economy turns downward, which is currently the case, commercial borrowers may not be able to repay their loans and the value of their assets, which are usually pledged as collateral, may decrease rapidly and significantly. Also, when credit markets tighten due to adverse developments in specific markets or the general economy, opportunities for refinancing may become more expensive or unavailable, resulting in loan defaults. The current economic conditions in West Bank’s market areas are exerting considerable negative pressure on our existing loan customers and are limiting our ability to find attractive new loan customers. Our real estate loans expose us to increased credit risks. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of real estate-related loans, including real estate development, construction, and residential and commercial mortgage loans. Consequently, real estate-related credit risks are a significant concern for us. The adverse consequences from real estate-related credit risks tend to be cyclical and are often driven by national economic developments that are not controllable or entirely foreseeable by us or by our borrowers. General difficulties in our real estate markets have recently contributed to increases in our non-performing loans, charge-offs, and decreases in our income. Although we believe that the real estate markets in which we make loans are not as depressed as some in the country, we believe that real estate-related credit risks continue to be significant in our markets. Our accounting policies and methods are the basis of how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in us reporting different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. We have identified two accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) the allowance for loan losses; (2) determining the fair value of investment securities available for sale; and (3) the valuation of goodwill. Because of the inherent uncertainty of these estimates, no assurance can be given that application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the reporting of different amounts of allowance for loan loss, fair value of securities available for sale, goodwill and net income. Various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase. Our allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses based on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns. In addition, general factors unique to each measurement date are considered, including economic conditions in certain geographic or industry segments of the loan portfolio, economic trends, risk profile, and portfolio composition. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes in a short period of time. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, many of which are not within our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Determining the appropriate loan loss allowance is more difficult during periods of significant economic downturn. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted. We analyze our investment securities quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, the value of any of the securities is other-than-temporarily impaired. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired when it appears unlikely that we will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. Our past acquisitions pose ongoing risks for our business. We purchased two investment advisory firms that we merged to create WB Capital. We may not achieve the benefits we sought in the acquisitions, or, if achieved, those benefits may be achieved later than we anticipated. Failure to achieve anticipated benefits from either acquisition could result in increased costs and lower revenues than expected of the combined company. In addition, if the financial performance associated with the acquisitions falls short of expectations, or if the valuations of investment advisory firms decline significantly, impairment charges associated with the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded as parts of the acquisitions may be required. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. economy. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was recently signed into law in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The Treasury has implemented a Capital Purchase Program (the "CPP") under EESA through which it has purchased preferred stock in participating financial institutions, including $36 million of our preferred stock on December 31, 2008. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“AARA”) became effective on February 17, 2009. That law is an unprecedented attempt to stimulate the national economy. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these acts will have on the financial markets, the general economy, or companies. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and general economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. Our participation in the CPP may impact earnings and common stock dividends. The annual cash dividend that must be paid on the preferred stock we sold to the Treasury through the CPP is $1,800,000 through 2013 and $3,240,000 thereafter. Our challenge is to use the $36 million capital infusion to generate earnings greater than the costs of the preferred stock. All of the preferred stock dividends must be paid before any common stock dividends may be paid. If we do not earn a profit on the proceeds from the preferred stock sale, our net income and dividends paid to common stock shareholders could be negatively affected. Our participation in the CPP restricts our ability to increase dividends on our common stock, undertake stock repurchase programs, and compensate our key executives. The terms of the CPP restrict our ability to increase dividends on our common stock above $0.16 per share, undertake stock repurchase programs, and pay certain executive compensation. Additional restrictions may be imposed on the CPP by the Treasury or Congress at a later date, and any such restrictions may apply to us retroactively. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operations, revenue and financial condition, our ability to pay dividends, or our ability to attract and retain executive talent. There can be no assurance that our shareholders will continue to receive dividends at the current rate. Our shareholders are only entitled to receive the dividends declared by our Board of Directors. The primary source of money to pay our dividends comes from the dividends paid by West Bank. The bank’s earnings declined during the last year. Our Board of Directors recently reduced the quarterly dividend paid on our common stock from $0.16 per share to $0.08 per share. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, there can be no assurance that we will maintain dividends at any particular rate. Any further reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend might adversely affect our stock price. 13 Substantial sales or dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the CPP stock sale, we sold a warrant to the Treasury representing the right to purchase 474,100 shares of our common stock. If the warrant is exercised, the newly issued common stock would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Our common stock is also relatively thinly traded. The market price of our common stock might fall if the number of shares of our common stock for sale at any particular time substantially increases due to the Treasury exercising its warrant and selling our common stock. The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers could cause our business to suffer. West Bancorporation and its subsidiaries are relatively small companies and have overlapping senior management. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of a relative few individuals, who generally do not have substantial backup. The loss of services of any of our senior executive officers could cause our business to suffer, at least in the short term. In addition, our success depends in significant part upon our senior management's ability to develop and implement our business strategies. We are subject to liquidity risks. We maintain liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other short-term funding sources. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, West Bank might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest revenue, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in our realizing a loss. The market for banking and financial services in our market areas is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive markets. The West Des Moines metropolitan market area in particular has attracted many new financial institutions within the last several years. Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of our competitors may also be better able to attract customers because they provide products and services over a larger geographic area than we serve. Federal and state regulation could increase our costs or have other negative effects on us. Our companies are regulated financial institutions. Financial institution regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress, the Iowa legislature, and federal and state regulatory agencies continually are reviewing and changing financial institution laws, regulations, and policies. The recent unprecedented failures of financial firms, credit market disruptions, and investor losses have caused many to call for increased financial institution regulation. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in significant, unpredictable ways. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff. ITEM 