Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “target” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terms. However, the absence of these words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to a material difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and the risks discussed in the Company’s other filings with the Commission. All forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report are qualified by these cautionary statements and there can be no assurance that the actual results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that they will have the expected consequence to or effects on the Company or its business or operations. The following 12 discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Economic recessions and other factors that reduce freight volumes could have a material adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of our customers, increases in prices charged by third-party carriers, interest rate fluctuations and other U.S. and global economic factors beyond our control. The recession beginning in 2008 and continuing throughout 2009 impacted the availability of services from our rail and truck transportation providers and our customer’s demands for our services. Although conditions have improved somewhat since 2009, the future pace of recovery and even the continuation thereof cannot be predicted. During economic downturns, reduced overall demand for transportation services will likely reduce demand for our services and exert downward pressures on rates and margins. In periods of strong economic growth, demand for limited transportation resources can result in increased rail network congestion and resulting operating inefficiencies. In addition, deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks that may have a material impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals, and which may include the following: • A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace reduces our opportunities for growth. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. • Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, causing our working capital needs to increase. • A significant number of our transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers. • We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. In addition, we have other primarily variable expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs, our business could suffer. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our profitability, including the following: • competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, more fully developed information technology systems and greater capital resources than we do; • reduction by our competitors of their rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business; • a shift in the business of shippers to asset-based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies’ trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry wide capacity; 13 • solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple transportation providers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors; and • establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs. We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy. We intend to expand substantially through acquisitions, including the acquisition of Pacer, to take advantage of market opportunities we perceive in both our current markets (freight brokerage, expedited transportation and freight forwarding) and in new markets that we may enter. However, we can provide no assurance that the Pacer acquisition or any other future acquisitions will be completed in the time frame we anticipate, if at all. In addition, we may experience delays in making acquisitions or be unable to make the acquisitions we desire for a number of reasons. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available at purchase prices that are attractive to us or on terms that are acceptable to us. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we will compete with other companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not have available funds or Common Stock with a sufficient market price to complete a desired acquisition. If we are unable to secure sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete acquisitions that we otherwise find advantageous. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may cause volatility in our financial results. Other than the Pacer acquisition, we are unable to predict the size, timing and number of acquisitions we may complete. In addition, we may incur expenses associated with sourcing, evaluating and negotiating acquisitions (including those that are not completed), and we also may pay fees and expenses associated with obtaining financing for acquisitions and with investment banks and others finding acquisitions for us. Any of these amounts may be substantial, and together with the size, timing and number of acquisitions we pursue, may negatively impact and cause significant volatility in our financial results and the price of our Common Stock. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows; • assumption of liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; • inability to negotiate effective indemnification protection from the seller, or inability to collect in the event of an indemnity claim; • problems integrating the purchased operations with our own, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; • potential compliance issues with regard to acquired companies that did not have adequate internal controls; • diversion of management’s attention or other resources from our existing business; • risks associated with entering markets, such as rail intermodal, air freight forwarding, ocean cargo, and last-mile logistics, in which we have limited prior experience; • increases in working capital investment to fund the growth of acquired operations; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company; and • future write-offs of intangible and other assets if the acquired operations fail to generate sufficient cash flows. 14 In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders’ holdings, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our profitability and cause our stock price to decline. We may not successfully manage our growth. We intend to grow rapidly and substantially, including by expanding our internal resources, making acquisitions (including the Pacer acquisition) and entering into new markets. We may experience difficulties and higher-than-expected expenses in executing this strategy as a result of unfamiliarity with new markets, change in revenue and business models and entering into new geographic areas. Our growth will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We will need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our working capital needs will increase substantially as our operations grow. Failure to manage growth effectively, or obtain necessary working capital, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, stock price and financial condition. We incurred substantial operating losses and net losses in the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years and we may continue to incur losses as we continue to invest in the Company to promote growth. We incurred substantial losses in the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years and we may continue to incur substantial losses as we invest pursuant to our strategies. Our growth strategy, in part, seeks to grow our business through the opening of cold-start locations in our Freight Brokerage segment. Generally, a newly opened sales office will generate an operating loss, and may have lower margin sales, during its start-up phase. Additionally, our business strategy requires that we develop an information technology platform across the Company, with sales, service, carrier and track-and-trace capabilities, as well as benchmarking and analysis. We are investing in technology systems and corporate infrastructure that are scalable for our intended growth and are designed to support larger operations than we currently have. Acquisitions increase the challenges associated with developing and integrating our information technology platform for purposes of meeting current and anticipated business needs. As a result of these and other initiatives, our gross margin derived from our operations may not be sufficient to absorb all of our selling, general and administrative expenses until we are able to generate greater revenue. Our ability to generate significant revenues and operate profitably will depend on many factors, including the successful implementation of our acquisition and greenfield growth strategies and our new information technology system. Our business will be seriously harmed if we fail to develop, implement, maintain, upgrade, enhance, protect and integrate information technology systems. We rely heavily on our information technology system to efficiently run our business and it is a key component of our growth strategy. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our proprietary technology platform in response to these trends, which may lead to significant ongoing software development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of our customers and the trends in the transportation services industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenues. Despite testing, external and internal risks, such as malware, insecure coding, “Acts of God,” attempts to penetrate our network, data leakage and human error pose a direct threat to our information technology systems and operations. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors could result in loss of revenues or market share, liability to customers or others, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Correction of such errors could prove to be impossible or very costly and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. 15 We must maintain and enhance the reliability and speed of our information technology systems to remain competitive and effectively handle higher volumes of freight through our network. If our information technology systems are unable to manage additional volume for our operations as our business grows, our service levels and operating efficiency could decline. We expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their transportation providers. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel to implement, protect and maintain our information technology systems or if we fail to upgrade our systems to meet our customers’ demands, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. This could result in a loss of customers or a decline in the volume of freight we receive from customers. We license an operating system that we are developing into an integrated information technology system for all of our business segments. This new system may not be successful or may not achieve the desired results. We may require additional training or different personnel to successfully implement this system, all of which may result in additional expense, delays in obtaining results or disruptions to our operations. In addition, acquired companies will need to be on-boarded onto this new integrated information technology system, which may cause additional training or licensing cost and disruption. In such event, our revenue, financial results and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. The challenges associated with integration of our acquisitions may increase these risks. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales representatives and independent station agents, or if a significant number of our existing sales representatives and independent station agents leave us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain sales representatives and independent station agents. Competition for qualified sales representatives and brokerage agents can be intense. We may be unable to attract such persons or retain those that are already associated with us. Any difficulties we experience in expanding or retaining our sales representatives and independent station agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our customer base, increase our revenue and continue our growth. Further, a significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives and independent station agents could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency. Our success is dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. Our success depends on the continuing services of our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bradley S. Jacobs. We believe that Mr. Jacobs possesses valuable knowledge and skills that are crucial to our success and would be very difficult to replicate. Our senior management team was assembled in 2011 and early 2012 under the leadership of Mr. Jacobs. The team was assembled with a view towards substantial growth, and the size and aggregate compensation of the team increased substantially. The associated significant increase in overhead expense could decrease our margins if we fail to grow substantially. Not all of our senior management team resides near or works at our headquarters. The geographic distance of the members of our senior management team may impede the team’s ability to work together effectively. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and their ability to work together. We cannot assure you that they will be able to do so. Over time, our success will depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be able to retain our management team or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management would require our remaining senior officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling the duties of the departing executive and to seeking a replacement. The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely impact our results of operations and prospects. 16 We depend on third parties in the operation of our business. In our Freight Forwarding and Freight Brokerage operations, we do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight, and we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. In our Expedited Transportation operations, we engage independent contractors who own and operate their own equipment. Accordingly, we are dependent on third parties to provide truck, rail, ocean, air and other transportation services and to report certain events to us, including delivery information and cargo claims. This reliance could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing revenue and claims. Our inability to maintain positive relationships with independent transportation providers could significantly limit our ability to serve our customers on competitive terms. If we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers or provide our services on competitive terms, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including the following: • equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted truckload carriers; • interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; and • changes in transportation rates. In our freight forwarding operations, we rely upon both independent station owners and our employees to develop and manage customer relationships and to service the customers. Our Freight Forwarding operations are provided through a network of independent stations that are owned and operated by independent contractors and through stations managed by our employees. These independent station owners and company employees develop and manage customer relationships, have discretion in establishing pricing, and service the customers through the various modes of transportation made available through our network of third party transportation providers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationships with these independent station owners or develop future relationships with additional independent station owners. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain or effectively motivate our key employees who manage our most significant customer relationships. Since these independent station owners and our employees maintain the relationships with the customers, some customers may decide to terminate their relationship with us if their independent station owner or contact leaves our network. Accordingly, our inability to maintain relationships with these independent station owners and our employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, since these independent station owners are independent contractors, we have limited control over their operations and the quality of service that they provide to customers. To the extent that an independent station owner provides poor customer service or otherwise does not meet a customer’s expectations, or we encounter a similar situation with our employees, this will reflect poorly on us, and the customer may not use us in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our largest customers, some of which are involved in highly cyclical industries; our relationships with our customers generally are terminable on short notice and generally do not provide minimum shipping commitments. While individual customer rankings within our top customers change from time to time, we rely upon our relationships with these large accounts in the aggregate for a significant portion of our revenues. In addition, 3PD, which we acquired during the third quarter of 2013, derived approximately 30% of its revenues in 2012 from its largest customer, a blue chip home improvement retailer, and its top three customers accounted for approximately 65% of its revenues in 2012. Any interruption or decrease in the business volume awarded by these customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and resulting profitability. 17 Our most significant customers include certain of the large automotive manufacturers, as well as various automotive industry suppliers. These companies have been, and will continue to be, impacted by the changing landscape in the U.S. automotive market, which is highly competitive and historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variation characterized by periods of oversupply and weak demand. Negative trends in the U.S. automotive market or a worsening in the financial condition of automotive manufacturers, or within the associated supplier base, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. 3PD’s most significant customers include many large home improvement retailers and other companies whose businesses are impacted by the residential real estate market in the United States, which is subject to significant volatility. An increase in the volatility of and/or deterioration in the residential real estate market may adversely affect these customers and, in turn, 3PD’s, and therefore our, revenues and results of operations. Our contractual relationships with our customers generally are terminable at will by the customers (or us) on short notice. Moreover, our customers generally are not required to provide any minimum shipping commitments. Failure to retain our existing customers or enter into relationships with new customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and resulting profitability. If our customers are able to improve their internal supply chain management systems or reduce their supply chain cost structures, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We believe that significant drivers for our customers to use third party logistics providers include the quality and cost of internal supply chain management and personnel. Third party logistics service providers such as ourselves are generally able to provide high-quality service more efficiently than otherwise could be provided “in-house.” Historically, this has been the case in our target industries. If, however, a customer in any industry we target is able to improve the quality of its internal supply chain management system, renegotiate the terms of its labor contracts or otherwise reduce its total cost structure regarding its employees, we may not be able to provide such a customer with an attractive alternative for its logistics needs and our business, results of operations and growth potential may be harmed. Higher purchased transportation expenses may result in decreased net revenue margin. Transportation providers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant, or to cover higher operating expenses. Factors such as increases in freight demand, decreases in trucking capacity, higher driver wages, increased regulation and increases in the prices of fuel, insurance, tractors, trailers and other operating expenses can result in higher purchased transportation expenses to us. Our profitability may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers to cover higher expenses, or we may be forced to refuse certain business, which could affect our customer relationships. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel may change our operations structure and resulting profitability. Fuel expense constitutes one of the greatest costs to our fleet of independent contractor drivers and third party transportation providers who complete the physical movement of freight we arrange. Fuel prices are highly volatile with the price and availability of all petroleum products subject to economic, political and other market forces beyond our control. As is customary in our industry, most of our customer contracts include fuel surcharge provisions to mitigate the effect of the fuel price increase over base amounts established in the contract. However, these fuel surcharge mechanisms usually do not capture the entire amount of the increase in fuel prices, and they also feature a lag between the payment for the fuel at the pump and collection of the surcharge revenue. Market pressures may limit our ability to assess fuel surcharges in the future. Significant increases in fuel prices would increase our need for working capital to fund payments to our independent contractor drivers and third party transportation providers. Significant changes in the price or availability of fuel in future periods or significant changes in our ability to mitigate fuel price increases through the use of fuel surcharges, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, fleet capacity and ability to generate both revenues and profits. 18 Increases in independent contractor driver compensation or other difficulties attracting and retaining qualified independent contractor drivers could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain or grow our independent contractor driver fleet. Our Expedited Transportation segment operates through a fleet of exclusive-use vehicles that are owned and operated by independent contractors. These independent contractor drivers are responsible for maintaining their own equipment and paying their own fuel, insurance, licenses and other operating costs. Independent contractor drivers make up a relatively small portion of the pool of all professional drivers in the United States. Turnover and bankruptcy among independent contractor drivers often limit the pool of qualified independent contractor drivers and increase competition for their services. In addition, regulations such as the FMCSA Compliance Safety Accountability program may further reduce the pool of qualified independent contractor drivers. Thus, our continued reliance on independent contractor drivers could limit our ability to grow our ground transportation fleet. We are currently experiencing, and expect to continue to experience from time to time in the future, difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified independent contractor drivers. Additionally, our agreements with independent contractor drivers are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified independent contractor drivers to replace those who have left our fleet. If we are unable to retain our existing independent contractor drivers or recruit new independent contractor drivers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The compensation we offer our independent contractor drivers is subject to market conditions and we may find it necessary to continue to increase independent contractor drivers’ compensation in future periods, which may be more likely to the extent economic conditions continue to improve. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of independent contractor drivers, we could be required to increase our mileage rates and accessorial pay or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain our size or to pursue our growth strategy. 3PD’s warehouse lease costs are fixed for a certain period of time, even if customer demand for shipping services in the areas where these warehouse are located decreases. 3PD is subject to expenses that are fixed for varying lengths of time through a significant number of lease agreements for warehousing facilities. These leases expire at various dates through 2018. The fixed nature of 3PD’s lease expenses may limit our ability to react promptly to a decline in demand by its customers for shipping services in the areas where these warehouses are located. The inability to respond promptly to changes in customer demand may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to terminate these leases or find suitable subleases in the event of a rapid reduction in market demand without a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A determination by regulators or courts that our independent contractor drivers are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislative and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractor drivers in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Many states have initiated enforcement programs to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers’ compensation and income taxes and a reclassification of independent contractor drivers as employees would help states with these initiatives. Further, class actions and other lawsuits have arisen in our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers’ compensation, wage-and-hour, and healthcare coverage. Proposed legislation would make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees. If our independent contractor drivers are determined to be our employees in any future determinations by regulators or courts, such a determination could increase the likelihood that we would be found liable under respondeat superior or other similar theories in personal injury or 19 other negligence causes of action, and we would incur additional exposure under federal, state and local tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor and employment laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the ongoing viability of our business model. Additionally, 3PD has been advised of audits by certain states regarding the classification of 3PD’s contract carriers and non-final reclassifications of 3PD’s contract carriers that 3PD is currently appealing. 3PD is also involved as a defendant in certain class action lawsuits which claim, in part, improper classification of 3PD’s contract carriers. If 3PD’s contract carrier drivers are determined to be its employees by regulators or courts in any of the actions involving 3PD or in any future determinations by regulators or courts, we would incur additional exposure under federal, state and local tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor and employment laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement related to the acquisition of 3PD, the former stockholders, option holders and warrant holders of 3PD have agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, including claims related to 3PD’s relationships with its contract carriers, subject to certain limits. However, there can be no assurance that this indemnification will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment (including wage-and-hour litigation relating to independent contractor drivers, sales representatives, brokerage agents and other individuals), personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters, including with respect to claims asserted under various theories of agency and employer liability notwithstanding our independent contractor relationships with our transportation providers. During 2013, we spent approximately $4.9 million in litigation-related legal costs. Any material litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Businesses that we acquire also increase our exposure to litigation. We are involved in litigation in the Fourth Judicial District Court of Hennepin County, Minnesota relating to our hiring of former employees of C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“CHR”). In the litigation, CHR asserts claims for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty and duty of loyalty, tortious interference with contractual relationships and prospective contractual relationships, misappropriation of trade secrets, violation of the federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, inducing, aiding and abetting breaches and conspiracy. CHR seeks temporary, preliminary and permanent injunctions, as well as direct and consequential damages and attorneys’ fees. CHR has asserted that it may seek punitive damages as well. On January 17, 2013, following a hearing, the Court issued an Order Regarding Motion for Temporary Injunction (the “Order”). The Order (as amended on April 16, 2013) prohibits us from engaging in business with certain CHR customers (the “Restricted Customers”) within a specified radius of Phoenix, AZ, until July 1, 2014. On November 6, 2013, CHR moved to compel compliance with the Order, requesting discovery and expanded enforcement of the Order. On November 18, 2013, we opposed CHR’s motion and cross moved to modify the Order. On February 19, 2014, the Court denied the majority of CHR’s motion, granting only CHR’s request for a report of our remediation efforts under the Order. At the same time, the Court granted our motion and modified the Order to allow XPO to do business with Restricted Customers in the Phoenix area if: (a) XPO obtained that business as the result of a merger or acquisition; or (b) the business is part of a competitive bidding process with an entity seeking nationwide services. The Court also clarified that the business restrictions in the Order do not apply to XPO’s servicing of other independent third party logistics entities who might be working for the ultimate benefit of the Restricted Customers. On February 7, 2013, CHR filed a First Amended Complaint against us and eight individual defendants who are current or former employees of XPO, including our Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President—Strategic Accounts and Vice President—Carrier Procurement and Operations. On April 11, 2013, we moved to dismiss the new claims asserted in that First Amended Complaint and moved to stay discovery pending the Court’s resolution of the motion to dismiss. On August 29, 2013, the Court granted in part and denied in part the 20 motion to dismiss and denied as moot the motion to stay discovery. On September 23, 2013, we filed our Answer to the First Amended Complaint and asserted counterclaims against CHR for violations of the Minnesota Antitrust, Unlawful Trade Practices, and Deceptive Trade Practices Act, as well as tortious interference with contractual relations and prospective contractual relations. CHR moved to dismiss our counterclaims on November 12, 2013, and we opposed that motion. A hearing on CHR’s motion to dismiss was held on February 10, 2013. The Court has not yet issued a ruling on CHR’s motion to dismiss. We intend to vigorously defend the action in court. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 3PD is a defendant in a number of class action and individual lawsuits alleging improper classification of contract carriers as independent contractors rather than employees, among other claims, and seeking damages primarily under varying state laws for alleged improper deductions from wages. Pursuant to the stock purchase agreement by which we acquired 3PD, the former owners of 3PD have agreed to indemnify us for costs and liabilities related to such class action and individual lawsuits, subject to certain limits. Additionally, we are a party to a variety of other legal actions, both as a plaintiff and as a defendant, that arose in the ordinary course of business, and may in the future become involved in other legal actions. We do not currently expect any of these matters or these matters in the aggregate to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. However, the results of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters, or our failure to recover, in full or in part, under the indemnity provisions noted above with the respect to 3PD, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to varying liability standards that may result in claims being asserted against us. With respect to our Expedited Transportation and Freight Forwarding operations, we have primary liability to the shipper for cargo loss and damage for certain liabilities caused by our independent contractor drivers. From time to time, our independent contractor drivers, and the drivers engaged by the transportation providers we contract with, are involved in accidents that may result in serious personal injuries or property damage. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded by or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted transportation provider. In our Freight Brokerage operations, we generally are not liable for damage to our customers’ cargo or in connection with damages arising in connection with the provision of transportation services. However, in our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo and other liability, such as for negligence and personal injury, including liability for the actions of transportation providers to which we broker freight and their employees or independent contractor drivers, or for our actions in retaining them. While we endeavor to limit this exposure to matters arising due to our negligence or misconduct, or to cap our exposure at a stated maximum dollar amount, we are not always able to do so. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. We are subject to regulation beyond our control, which could negatively impact our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various federal and state transportation agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. These regulatory agencies have authority and oversight of domestic and international transportation services and related activities, licensure, motor carrier operations, safety and security and other matters. We must comply with various insurance and surety bond requirements to act in the capacities for which we are licensed. Our subsidiaries and independent contractors must also comply with applicable regulations and requirements of such agencies. The “Regulation” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption entitled “Business” describes the various licenses obtained by us, Express-1, XGL and XPO Air Charter, as well as proposed, pending and adopted regulations that could significantly affect our business, operations, productivity, independent contractors and capital expenditures. 21 Through our subsidiaries and business units, we hold various licenses required to carry out our domestic and international services. These licenses permit us to provide services as a motor carrier, property broker, indirect air carrier, Ocean Transportation Intermediary, non-vessel operating common carrier, freight forwarder and ocean freight forwarder. We also are subject to regulations and requirements promulgated by, among others, the U.S. Department of Transportation and FMCSA, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security through the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Federal Maritime Commission, International Air Transportation Association, the Canada Border Services Agency and various other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to maintain our required licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or require us to incur significant additional costs. We are unable to predict the impact that recently enacted and future regulations may have on our businesses. Higher costs incurred by us, or incurred by our independent contractors or third party transportation providers who pass the increased costs on to us, as a result of future new regulations could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we are unable to obtain a corresponding increase in price from our customers. Seasonality affects our operations and profitability. The transportation industry experiences seasonal fluctuations. Our results of operations are typically lower for the first quarter of the calendar year relative to our other quarters. We believe this is due in part to the post-holiday reduction in demand experienced by many of our customers, which leads to more capacity in the non-expedited and service-critical markets and, in turn, less demand for expedited and premium shipping services. In addition, the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers generally decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations. Work stoppages, weather related issues, or other disruption beyond our transportation providers control could adversely affect our operating results. Our transportation services are provided through a network of transportation providers. Hurricanes, flooding, and other severe weather conditions, as well as other calamities such as earthquakes, fires and acts of terrorism, can cause a disruption in service that can affect the flow of traffic over the entire network. In addition, our businesses can be adversely affected by labor disputes between railroads and their union employees, seaport strikes and labor renegotiations, foreign labor market disruptions, or by a work stoppage at railroads or local trucking companies servicing rail terminals, including work disruptions involving owner operators under contract with our local trucking operations. These network disruptions result in terminal embargoes, disruption to equipment and freight flows, depressed volumes and revenues, increased costs and other negative effects on our operations and financial results. Terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism measures and war could have broad detrimental effects on our business operations. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our independent contractors and transportation providers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Congress has mandated 100% security screening of air cargo traveling on passenger airlines. War, risk of war or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. 22 Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise substantial additional capital when needed could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Future issuances of our Common Stock will dilute our stockholders’ ownership and our stock price may decline accordingly. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. Our outstanding Preferred Stock, Convertible Senior Notes and revolving credit agreement limit our operating and financial flexibility. We are obligated to pay holders of our Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock quarterly cash dividends equal to the greater of (i) the “as-converted” dividends on the underlying Common Stock for the relevant quarter, if applicable, and (ii) 4% of the then-applicable liquidation preference per annum. Presently, the aggregate dividends due to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are $2.9 million each year. Our Series A Preferred Stock has an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, for an aggregate liquidation preference of $73.4 million, subject to adjustment in the event of accrued and unpaid dividends. Accordingly, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have claim to a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and liquidity, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, our growth initiatives and other general corporate purposes. We are obligated to pay holders of our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes interest semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2013. The Notes will mature on October 1, 2017 unless earlier converted or repurchased. The conversion rate was initially 60.8467 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $16.43 per share of Common Stock) and is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. We may acquire from time to time our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes for cash or securities in market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, depending on market and other conditions. Our revolving credit agreement contains, and any future credit agreement would likely contain, certain operating and financial restrictive covenants. Such covenants include limits on management’s discretion in operating our business and may affect our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments, acquisitions and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. Failure to comply with the covenants under the loan commitment (if drawn) or any future credit agreement may have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants under any such credit agreement, and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under the applicable credit agreement. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings if such borrowings were accelerated upon an event of default. The price of our Common Stock historically has been volatile and this volatility may make it difficult for you to resell shares of Common Stock owned by you at times or may make it difficult for you to sell shares of Common Stock at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our Common Stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in share prices and trading 23 volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the market price of our Common Stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • changes in financial estimates and buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • our earnings releases and financial performance; • market conditions in our industry and the general state of the securities markets; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • actions by institutional shareholders; • investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; • general economic conditions; and • other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. The trading price of our Common Stock has fluctuated widely in the past, and we expect that it will continue to fluctuate in the future. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our Common Stock to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors or a committee thereof has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of Preferred Stock and issue shares of Preferred Stock. The ability of our board of directors or a committee thereof to create and issue a new series of Preferred Stock, our stockholders rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our Common Stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We anticipate that we will fund future acquisitions (including the Pacer acquisition) or our capital requirements from time to time, in whole or part, through sales or issuances of our Common Stock or equity-based securities, subject to prevailing market conditions and our financing needs. Future equity financing will dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and future sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock or other equity-related securities may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We have securities outstanding presently that are convertible into or exercisable for a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock. As of February 21, 2014, there were (i) 48,747,390 shares of our Common Stock outstanding, (ii) 73,425 shares of Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock outstanding, which are convertible into an aggregate of 10,489,286 shares of our Common Stock (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), (iii) Warrants exercisable at any time until September 2, 2021, for an aggregate of 10,678,572 shares of our Common Stock, at an initial exercise price of $7.00 per share of Common Stock (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), (iv) 2,469,273 shares of our Common Stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options or settlement of restricted stock units and (v) 7,341,824 shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes. 24 Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls a large portion of our voting stock and has substantial control over us, which could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bradley S. Jacobs, is the managing member of Jacobs Private Equity, LLC (“JPE”), our largest stockholder, and beneficially owns as of February 21, 2014: (i) 67,500 shares of our Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock held by JPE, which are initially convertible into an aggregate of 9,642,857 shares of our Common Stock, (ii) Warrants held by JPE that are initially exercisable for an aggregate of 9,642,857 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of $7.00 per share, (iii) 56,826 shares of our Common Stock that are held directly by Mr. Jacobs and (iv) employee stock options exercisable for 100,000 shares of our Common Stock that have vested or will vest within 60 days. In total, as of February 21, 2014, Mr. Jacobs beneficially owns 19,442,540 shares of our Common Stock, which represents approximately 28.5% of our outstanding Common Stock, assuming conversion and exercise of his Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, Warrants and vested stock options and restricted stock units (without reflecting any shares issuable upon conversion of our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2017). This significant concentration of beneficial share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our Common Stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Our Series A Preferred Stock votes together with our Common Stock on an “as-converted” basis on all matters, except as otherwise required by law, and separately as a class with respect to certain matters implicating the rights of holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Agreement, dated as of June 13, 2011 (the “Investment Agreement”), by and among JPE, the other investors party thereto and us, Mr. Jacobs, as the managing member of JPE, will have the right to designate for nomination by our board of directors a majority of the members of our board of directors so long as JPE owns securities (including Preferred Stock convertible into, or Warrants exercisable for, securities) representing at least 33% of the voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis, and will have the right to designate for nomination by our board of directors 25% of the members of our board of directors so long as JPE owns securities (including Preferred Stock convertible into, or Warrants exercisable for, securities) representing at least 20% of the voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis. Under the terms of the Investment Agreement, Mr. Jacobs currently beneficially owns approximately 25.0% of the voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis, including his ownership of Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock and Warrants. Further, as of February 21, 2014, Mr. Jacobs’ beneficial ownership of our Common Stock and Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock entitled him to cast approximately 16.4% of the votes eligible to be cast on matters to be presented for consideration at a meeting of our stockholders (such as, for example, the election of directors). Accordingly, Mr. Jacobs can exert significant influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership and the related contractual rights may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. Our Common Stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and Series A Preferred Stock. Shares of the Common Stock are equity interests in XPO and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of our Common Stock rank junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on XPO with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on XPO, including in a liquidation of XPO. Additionally, we have outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $73.4 million and an annual cash dividend of 4% of such liquidation preference. Holders of our Common Stock are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Common Stock. We have never paid, and have no immediate plans to pay, cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently plan to retain future earnings and cash flows for use in the development of our business and to enhance stockholder value through growth and continued focus on increasing profitability rather than pay dividends on our Common Stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the near future. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 