Item 1A. Risk Factors. This annual report, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. The risks and other factors, including those considered in connection with the disposal of substantially all the assets of the Tecstar Automotive Group business segment, that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks related to Liquidity and Capital Resources We anticipate that we will need to raise additional financing to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, to complete product and application development, to expand operations, to fund future operating activities and contractual commitments, and/or pay off or refinance debt. Our long-term future cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including increasing our revenues, completion of our product development activities, our ability to commercialize our propulsion and fuel systems, market acceptance of our products and controlling costs. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to fund expected losses, continue development programs, developing a manufacturing infrastructure for our products and meeting our short and long term debt obligations. We anticipate that we will need to raise additional funds for strategic business opportunities, to achieve commercialization of our products, to develop facilities for mass production of those products, and to fund future operating activities and contractual commitments. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to issue a sufficient number of shares of our common stock to satisfy our debt obligations, we may also need to raise additional funds to pay off or refinance these debt obligations. The amount of additional financing that we may need to raise cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but will be directly related to our ability to increase revenues and control costs. We believe such financing can be adequately sourced through 18 Table of Contents public or private offerings of equity or debt securities; however, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders will be reduced. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term operating and capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our development and commercialization plans, which could adversely affect operations in future periods. We may not be able to obtain waivers of potential defaults in the future from our lender if we do not meet future requirements associated with our amended credit facility and convertible promissory note. We received waivers of defaults from our lender on December 14, 2007 and on January 16, 2008 related to our non-compliance with certain required debt service payments. We cannot provide any assurance that our lender would provide us with a waiver should we not be in compliance in the future. A failure to maintain compliance along with our lender not agreeing to a waiver for the non-compliance would cause the outstanding borrowings to be in default and payable on demand which would have a material adverse effect on us. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow that may continue into the foreseeable future. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. We believe that we have a long-term strategy in place that will allow us to operate profitably in the future. However, if we fail to execute our strategy to achieve and maintain profitability in the future, investors could lose confidence in the value of our common stock, which could cause our stock price to decline and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We have spent significant funds to develop and refine our technologies and services. We expect to continue to invest in research and development, and this investment could outpace revenue growth, which would hinder our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could affect its market price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of options, warrants, convertible debt and subsequent offerings, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. To the extent that holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock choose to liquidate their investments in us, sales of such shares could have a negative impact upon the price of our common stock, particularly in the short term. Our shareholders are subject to significant dilution upon the occurrence of certain events such as the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and convertible debt and the issuance of shares to pay debt. We have approximately 43 million shares of our common stock that are issuable upon exercise of stock options, warrants and convertible debt. Under our credit facility, we also have the right to pay the principal amounts due under our credit agreement in shares of our common stock. Based on our outstanding obligations under the credit facility and our closing share price as of May 30, 2008, we would require approximately 22 million shares to satisfy the principal amounts due. The potential issuance of approximately 65 million shares upon exercise of stock options, warrants and convertible debt and as payment of the principal due under the term notes associated with our credit facility will be dilutive to our existing shareholders. In addition, the exercise price on certain of our outstanding warrants will be reset if we sell or issue securities at a price below $1.50. If such reset provisions are triggered, it will have a further dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. Prior to July 2002, there was no trading market for our common stock. Since our common stock began trading in July 2002, its market price and trading volume have been volatile. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors described in this annual report or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of 19 Table of Contents securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our common stock. Prices for our common stock may also be influenced by the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perceptions about us and our business, our future financial results, the absence of cash dividends on our common stock and general economic and market conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert our management and other resources. An increase in the principal amount due under a $10.0 million term note we issued on January 16, 2008 and amended on May 30, 2008 could have a material effect on our financial statements as a result of an upward adjustment clause in the credit facility. On January 16, 2008 we issued a term note with an initial principal balance of $10 million (Term Note B). The principal amount due under the term note is subject to upward adjustment based upon a fixed formula that is tied to the price of our common stock. After the amendment to the Term Note B that occurred on May 30, 2008, the maximum amount of the principal that could be payable under the note is $52.5 million. We anticipate that we will record a noncash interest charge in our statement of operations equal to the change in the fair value of Term Note B from the date of issuance to the date of the amendment in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and the amount of such interest charge could be substantial. In addition, any future change in the upward adjustment of Term Note B will require an interest charge to the statement of operations in the period such payments are made, and such interest charges could be substantial. We have the option to repay the principal in cash or stock; however, there is a risk that increases in the principal as a result of the upward adjustment will make it difficult for us to repay the principal in cash when it becomes due. Our future operating results may fluctuate, which could result in a lower price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock may decline below currently prevailing levels. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • interest charges related to Term Note B described in the risk factor immediately above; and • general market and industry conditions and other factors. We have a commitment to provide a guaranty to an affiliate’s credit facility that could be called upon if the affiliate defaults on the credit facility in the future. In connection with our acquisition of an ownership interest in Asola, we have committed to provide a 1.0 million euro guaranty to Asola’s bank associated with Asola’s anticipated expanded credit facility for additional capital equipment. If Asloa were to default on the credit facility in the future, we could be called upon to repay the credit facility up to the limit of our guaranty. Other Risks Related to our Business Our business depends on the growth of hybrid and hydrogen based vehicles and the solar industry. Our future success depends on the continued expansion of hybrid electric and hydrogen based vehicles and the solar industry. The market for these types of vehicles and for solar technologies and products is influenced by and our sales may be negatively impacted by a number of factors some of which include the level of oil prices, battery durability improvements, levels of investment tax credits and regulation, availability of raw materials for photovoltaic module production, interest rates and consumer disposable income. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the markets for hybrid electric vehicles and fuel cells or hydrogen-based vehicles will gain broad acceptance or, if they do, that they will result in increased sales of our hybrid vehicles and advanced fuel system products. Our business depends on auto manufacturers’ timing for 20 Table of Contents pre-production development programs and commercial production. If there are delays in the advancement of OEM fuel cell technologies or in our OEM customers’ internal plans for commercialization, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our ability to design and manufacture fuel systems and powertrains for fuel cell, hydrogen and hybrid applications that can be integrated into new vehicle platforms will be critical to our business and our ability to successfully complete existing development programs. We are currently developing and integrating an advanced hybrid propulsion system for a production intent vehicle. This hybrid electric drive system, including a battery software management system, is being designed to meet strict design and packaging requirements of our affiliate, Fisker Automotive. In addition, we currently offer packaged fuel systems, which include tanks, brackets, electronics, software and other components required to allow these products to operate in fuel cells, hybrids, or other alternative fuel applications. Customers for these systems require that these products meet either their strict design standards or OEM level standards that can vary by jurisdiction. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in increased development, manufacturing, warranty and administrative costs. A significant increase in these costs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to meet OEM or customer specifications on a timely basis, our existing or future relationships with our OEM and other customers may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be commercially viable, our products and systems generally must be integrated into products manufactured by OEMs. We can offer no assurance that OEMs will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our fuel cell products and systems. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by OEMs could adversely affect the market for our fuel cell products and systems and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business revenue depends to a significant extent on our relationship with General Motors and General Motors’ commitment to the commercialization of fuel cell vehicles. Our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if General Motors were to terminate its relationship with us. Our ability to sell our products to the fuel cell automotive OEM markets depends to a significant extent upon General Motors’ and its partners’ worldwide sales and distribution network and service capabilities. Any change in strategy by General Motors with respect to fuel cells could harm our business by reducing or eliminating a substantial portion of our sales, whether as a result of market, economic or competitive pressures, including any decision by General Motors: • to alter its commitment to our fuel storage, fuel delivery and electronic control technology in favor of other competing technologies; • to exit the automotive OEM alternative fuel or fuel cell markets; • to develop fuel cells or alternative fuel systems targeted at different application markets from ours; or • to focus on different energy product solutions. In addition, pursuant to our agreement with General Motors, we are required to spend $4.0 million annually on joint research and development projects directed by General Motors over a ten-year term that commenced in July 2002. Although this commitment was waived or partially waived by General Motors for calendar years 2002 through 2007, we cannot provide any assurance that GM will continue to waive this commitment in whole or part in the future. The annual commitment under our agreement with General Motors could be financially burdensome and may impact our ability to achieve profitability in the future. Where intellectual property is developed pursuant to this alliance, we have committed to provide certain exclusive or non-exclusive licenses in favor of General Motors, and in some cases the developed intellectual property will be jointly owned. As a result of such licenses, we may be limited or precluded, as the case may be, in the exploitation of such intellectual property rights. 21 Table of Contents Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers and we expect this trend to continue. Our customer arrangements generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Decrease in demand or price for solar cells could have an adverse effect on our financial statements. We have entered into a long-term supply agreement under which we have agreed to purchase solar cells with a cumulative power of 77.5 mega watts peak (MWp) through December 31, 2017 at pre-determined quantities that could cause us to hold larger than expected quantities of inventory on hand as a result of future decreased demand, and at pre-determined prices that could be above market rates in the future that could cause us to incur losses on the sale of products manufactured utilizing the solar cells. Past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other similar transactions may not be successful. We have consummated and may continue to consummate acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures and strategic alliances in order to provide increased capabilities to our existing products, supply new products and services or enhance our distribution channels. We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of and investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, geographic locations, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, or incur unforeseen expenses in consummating future acquisitions or other investments, we could incur unanticipated expenses and losses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that those transactions or relationships will be successful. Any transactions or relationships will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with those matters. Risks that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include, among other things: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the distraction of management from our business; • the unexpected loss of customers of the acquired business; • the potential inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position as a result of an acquisition or investment; • the potential for costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; 22 Table of Contents • the risk of entering market segments in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such market segments have stronger market segment positions; • the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal control of any acquired company or investments that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal controls taken as a whole; • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; and • the potential dilution of earnings through acquisitions and options granted to employees of acquired companies or businesses Future acquisitions or investments could result in our incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, including environmental, tax or other liabilities. These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to generate cash and ability to make required payments on our debt. Future acquisitions could harm our operating results and share price. Any acquisitions could materially harm our operating results as a result of issuances of dilutive equity securities or payment of cash. In addition, the purchase price of any acquired businesses may exceed the current fair values of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill, and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. We could become subject to stockholder litigation associated with our merger with and subsequent disposition of the Tecstar Automotive Group business segment. Stockholders of companies involved in mergers sometimes file lawsuits that allege, among other things, improprieties in the manner in which mergers or dispositions of business units were approved or executed. We are not aware of any stockholder claims or potential claims with respect to our merger with or subsequent disposition of the Tecstar Automotive Group business segment, but such claims could arise in the future. Any such claims, whether or not resolved in our favor, could divert our management and other resources from the operation of our business and otherwise result in unexpected and substantial expenses that adversely and materially impact our operating results. We may never be able to introduce commercially viable hydrogen products and hybrid propulsion systems. We do not know whether or when we will successfully introduce commercially viable hydrogen products and hybrid propulsion systems. We have produced and are currently demonstrating a number of test and evaluation systems and are continuing efforts to decrease the costs of these systems and to improve their overall functionality and efficiency. However, we must complete substantial additional research and development on these hydrogen and hybrid propulsion systems before we can introduce commercially viable hydrogen products and hybrid propulsion systems. Even if we are able to do so, these efforts will still depend upon the success of other companies in producing related and necessary products for use in conjunction with commercially viable fuel cells, hybrids and other hydrogen applications. A mass market for hydrogen products and systems may never develop or may take longer to develop than anticipated. Fuel cell and hydrogen systems represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale or whether OEMs will incorporate these technologies into their products. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for hydrogen 23 Table of Contents powered transportation applications, we may be unable to recover our expenditures to develop our fuel systems for hydrogen applications and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, any of which could negatively impact our business. Estimates for the development of a mass market for fuel cell products and systems have lengthened in recent years. Many factors that are beyond our control may have a negative effect on the development of a mass market for fuel cells and our fuel systems for hydrogen applications. These factors include the following: • cost competitiveness and physical size of fuel cell systems and “balance of plant” components; • availability, future costs and safety of hydrogen, natural gas and other potential fuel cell fuels; • consumer acceptance of hydrogen or alternative fuel products; • government funding and support for the development of hydrogen vehicles and hydrogen fuel infrastructure; • the willingness of OEMs to replace current technology; • consumer perceptions of hydrogen systems; • regulatory requirements; and • emergence of newer, breakthrough technologies and products within the automotive industry. Evolving customer design requirements, product specifications and testing procedures could cause order delays or cancellations. We have experienced delays in shipping our products as a result of changing customer specifications and testing procedures. Due to the dynamic nature of hydrogen fuel cell and hybrid technology, changes in specifications are common and may continue to result in delayed shipments, order cancellations or higher production costs. Evolving design requirements or product specifications may adversely affect our business or financial results. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture fuel systems for our fuel cell applications or our ability to manufacture our hybrid propulsion system and other products. In particular, components that we integrate in our hydrogen fuel regulation systems need to be compatible with hydrogen. To the extent materials need to be tested and replaced to ensure compatibility, we may experience delays in shipping our hydrogen fuel regulation systems or complete packaged fuel systems. Additionally, a delay in the delivery of components, such as battery packs for our hybrid propulsion system or materials used in our other products, such as high-strength fiber, from our current suppliers or a change to other suppliers would likely delay the production of our products that use those components or materials, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The terms and enforceability of many of our strategic partner relationships are uncertain. We have entered into relationships with strategic partners for design, product development and distribution of our existing products, and products under development, some of which may not have been documented by a definitive agreement. Where definitive agreements govern the relationships between us and our partners, the terms and conditions of many of these agreements allow for termination by the partners. Termination of any of these agreements could adversely affect our ability to design, develop and distribute these products to the marketplace. In many cases, these strategic relationships are governed by a memorandum of understanding or a letter of intent. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully negotiate and execute definitive agreements with any of these potential partners, and failure to do so may effectively terminate the relevant relationship. 24 Table of Contents We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. Our products face and will continue to face significant competition. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources, are currently engaged in the development of hydrogen and hybrid propulsion products and technologies that are similar to, or may be competitive with, certain of our products and technologies. Because the fuel cell and hybrid propulsion technologies have the potential to replace existing power sources, competition for fuel cell and hybrid products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fueled vehicles may cause OEMs to find it advantageous to develop and produce their own hybrid propulsion or fuel management equipment rather than purchase the equipment from us. In addition, greater acceptance of electric vehicles and alternative fuel engines or fuel cells may result in new competitors. Furthermore, there are competitors, including OEMs, working on developing other fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technologies in our targeted markets. A large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan possess fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technology and/or are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of fuel cells and hybrid vehicles. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have financial resources, customer bases, businesses or other resources which give them significant competitive advantages. We depend on our intellectual property, and our failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. Our failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation, and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We have not conducted formal evaluations to confirm that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If infringement were to occur, our development, manufacturing, sales and distribution of such technology or products may be disrupted. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of the patents we have filed or other patents that third parties license to us will not be invalidated (especially in light of the potentially adverse implications of our abandoned reissue application and agreement with Dynetek Industries Ltd. in which we agreed not to assert claims with respect to our in-tank regulator patent), circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage we seek, if issued at all. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. For instance, it may be difficult for us to enforce certain of our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have inappropriately acquired interests in our intellectual property rights by filing unauthorized trademark applications in foreign countries to register our marks because of their familiarity with our business in the United States. 25 Table of Contents Some of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by any patent or patent application, and, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. We have generally sought to protect such proprietary intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees, although such agreements have not been put in place in every instance. We cannot guarantee that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property or proprietary rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Furthermore, the steps we have taken and may take in the future may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in respect of officers and employees who are no longer employed by us or in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary intellectual property used in our principal products. This may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by others. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property litigation, in the future we may commence lawsuits against others if we believe they have infringed our rights, or we may become subject to lawsuits alleging that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. For example, to the extent that we have previously incorporated third-party technology and/or know-how into certain products for which we do not have sufficient license rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to pay substantial damages or royalties, or even be forced to cease sales in the event any owner of such technology or know-how were to challenge our subsequent sale of such products (and any progeny thereof). In addition, to the extent that we discover or have discovered third-party patents that may be applicable to products or processes in development, we may need to take steps to avoid claims of possible infringement, including obtaining non-infringement or invalidity opinions and, when necessary, re-designing or re-engineering products. However, we cannot assure you that these precautions will allow us to successfully avoid infringement claims. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited experience manufacturing propulsion and fuel systems for fuel cell and hybrid applications on a commercial basis. To date, we have limited experience manufacturing propulsion and fuel systems for fuel cell, hybrid, PHEV and hydrogen applications on a commercial basis. In order to produce propulsion and fuel systems at affordable 26 Table of Contents prices, we will have to produce fuel and drive systems through high volume automated processes. We do not know whether we will be able to develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards, or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel systems for fuel cell and hydrogen applications. Even if we are successful in developing our high volume manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedules or to satisfy the requirements of customers. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones. We have product development programs that are in the pre-commercial stage. The success of each product development program is highly dependent on our correct interpretation of commercial market requirements, and our translation of those requirements into applicable product specifications and appropriate development milestones. If we have misinterpreted market requirements, or if the requirements of the market change, we may develop a product that does not meet the cost and performance requirements for a successful commercial product. In addition, if we do not meet the required development milestones, our commercialization schedules could be delayed, which could result in potential purchasers of these products declining to purchase additional systems or choosing to purchase alternative technologies. Delayed commercialization schedules may also impact our cash flow, which could require increased funding. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and maintain key personnel. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers, technicians, machinists and management personnel. For example, our research and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for highly skilled engineers is extremely intense, and we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on our chairman of the board, our chief executive officer, or our chief financial officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to increased warranty claims due to longer warranty periods. In response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. Our business may be subject to product liability claims or product recalls, which could be expensive and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of products and systems to automotive OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the 27 Table of Contents transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Our other products may also be subject to product liability claims or recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our insurance may not be sufficient. We carry insurance that we consider adequate in regard to the nature of the covered risks and the costs of coverage. We are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. Our business may become subject to future product certification regulations, which may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and internationally. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. The failure to comply with these certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or in civil or criminal penalties. We anticipate that regulatory bodies will establish certification procedures and impose regulations on fuel cell enabling technologies, which may impair our ability to distribute, install and service these systems. Any new government regulation that affects our advanced fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and servicing of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and harm our results of operations. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, and as a result are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and hazardous waste products that we generate. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, including a discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our insurance and other resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including new or revised safety or environmental standards, could give rise to significant liability and require us to incur substantial expenses and could materially harm our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. A range of other technologies could compete with fuel cell, hydrogen, hybrid or other technologies on which our automotive business is currently focused. Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop and market new or modified fuel cell products and systems. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for fuel cell and alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are driven, to a significant degree, by local, state and federal regulations that relate to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants, and that require the purchase of motor vehicles and equipment operating on alternative fuels or fuel cells. Similarly, foreign governmental regulations also affect our international business. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in alternative fuel and fuel cell powered vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current domestic and foreign laws or to adopt additional environmental laws could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, and fuel cells in particular, we cannot assure you that governments will not change their priorities or that any change they make would not materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. The development of uniform codes and standards for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and related hydrogen refueling infrastructure may not develop in a timely fashion. Uniform codes and standards do not currently exist for fuel cell systems, fuel cell components or the use of hydrogen as a vehicle fuel. Establishment of appropriate codes and standards is a critical element to allow fuel cell system developers, fuel cell component developers and hydrogen storage and handling companies to develop products that will be accepted in the marketplace. All fuels, including hydrogen, pose significant safety hazards, and hydrogen vehicles have not yet been widely used under “real-world” driving conditions. Ensuring that hydrogen fuel is safe to use by the car-driving public requires that appropriate codes and standards be established that will address certain characteristics of hydrogen and the safe handling of hydrogen fuels. The development of fuel cell and hydrogen fuel applicable standards is being undertaken by numerous organizations, including the American National Standards Institute, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the European Integrated Hydrogen Project, the International Code Council, the International Standards Organization, the National Fire Protection Association, the National Hydrogen Association, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the Canadian Standards Association, the American National Standards Institute and the International Electrotechnical Commission. Given the number of organizations pursuing hydrogen and fuel cell codes and standards, it is not clear whether universally accepted codes and standards will result and, if so, when. Although many organizations have identified as a significant priority the development of codes and standards, we cannot assure you that any resulting codes and standards would not materially affect our revenue or the commercialization of our products. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal controls will include those of any company or business that we acquire in the future. Acquired companies or businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. Provisions of Delaware law and of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may make a takeover or change in control more difficult. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and Board of Directors oppose. Public stockholders that might desire to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for the following: • a staggered Board of Directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors in any one year; • the exclusive right of the Board of Directors to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the Board of Directors; • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control of us; • advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which could delay a third party from pursuing an acquisition; and • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and requiring the affirmative vote of 80% of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, which could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and the Board of Directors. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 