Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Annual Report, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. These risks and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances in the future or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We discuss all known material risks to our business below. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, our financial condition or our results of operations would likely suffer significantly. In such case, the value of our Common Stock could decline and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. RISKS RELATED TO LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional funds to finance operations We have incurred recurring operating losses and negative cash flows from our continuing operating activities. We have used $13.2 million and $16.9 million in cash for continuing operating activities during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, respectively. From our inception through April 30, 2009, we have funded our operations and strategic investments primarily with proceeds from public and private offerings of our Common Stock and borrowings with financial institutions and our lender. Our historical operating results, capital resources and financial position in combination with current projections and estimates were considered in our plan and intentions to fund operations through at least April 30, 2010. 21 Table of Contents Although our current operating plan anticipates increased revenues and improved profit margins over the next two years, we have experienced a decline in revenues during the first three quarters of fiscal 2010 that has required us to continue to use a significant amount of cash in our operations and may require us to use, over the course of the entire 2010 fiscal year, a level of cash that approaches the actual amount used for operations during fiscal 2009. Based on current projections and estimates, we believe that our working capital and principal sources of liquidity are sufficient to fund the operating activities and obligations through at least April 30, 2010. To meet these funding requirements, we may have to draw down on some or all of the unconditional commitment from our lender or alternatively raise capital through public or private offerings of equity or debt securities. We also believe additional financing, if required, can be adequately sourced; however, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our inability to achieve our current operating plan or raise capital to cover any shortfall would have a material adverse affect on our ability to meet our obligations as they become due without substantial disposition of assets or other similar actions outside the ordinary course of business. If we are not able to secure the additional funding we need, we may need to curtail our operations or take other action in order to continue to operate as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow and anticipate continued net losses as we execute our long-term strategic plan and commercialization plan for our products. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. We have incurred recurring net losses, including net losses from continuing operations of $21.7 million in fiscal 2007 (as restated), $19.9 million in fiscal 2008 (as restated), and $28.0 million in fiscal 2009. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures and incur substantial expenses as we continue our research and development efforts, further commercialize our products, expand into other renewable energy industries such as solar, and develop facilities to expand the production capacity for our products. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant losses as we execute our strategies and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We believe that we have a long-term strategy in place that will allow us to operate profitably in the future. However, if we fail to execute our strategy or if there is a change in the alternative energy or hybrid vehicle market conditions or any other assumptions we used in formulating our business strategy, our long-term strategy many not be successful and we may not be able to achieve and maintain profitability. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our company and the value of our Common Stock, which could cause our stock price to decline and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We anticipate that we will need to raise additional funds to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, to complete product and application development, to fund our solar initiatives, future operating activities and contractual commitments, and/or pay off or refinance debt. Our long-term future cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including increasing our revenues, completion of our product development activities, our ability to commercialize our advanced propulsion and fuel systems, market acceptance of our products and controlling costs. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to fund expected losses, continue development programs, developing a manufacturing infrastructure for our products and solar plant and meeting our debt obligations. We anticipate that we will need to raise additional funds for strategic business opportunities, to achieve commercialization of our products, to develop facilities or suppliers for mass production of those products, and to fund future operating activities and contractual commitments. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if we are unable to issue a sufficient number of shares of our Common Stock to satisfy our debt obligations, we may also need to raise additional funds to pay off or refinance these debt obligations. The amount of additional financing that we may need to raise cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but will be directly related to our ability to increase revenues, improve profit margins, secure Department of Energy and other 22 Table of Contents governmental grants and loans, and control costs. We believe such financing can be adequately sourced through public or private offerings of equity or debt securities and/or through governmental grants or loans; however, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders will be reduced. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term operating and capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our development and commercialization plans, which could adversely affect operations in future periods. We are currently not in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements and, if we are unable to regain compliance, we are at risk of being delisted from Nasdaq, which could adversely affect the market for, and liquidity and price of, our common stock and our ability to raise capital Our Common Stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. In order to maintain our listing, we must comply with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements which require, among other things, timely submission of our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports as set forth in Rule 5250(c)(1). We are currently not in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements because we did not timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2009 and, subsequently, have not filed our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended July 31, 2009 and October 31, 2009, as is required under Rule 5250(c)(1). Nasdaq granted us an exception until January 25, 2010 to file all of our delinquent reports and regain compliance with Rule 5250(c)(1). Since we were not able to file our delinquent Quarterly Reports for fiscal 2010 by January 25, 2010, we will receive a staff determination notice from Nasdaq stating that our Common Stock will be delisted from Nasdaq. At that time, we will have the right to request a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to appeal the delisting and request continued listing and additional time to file our Quarterly Reports. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that our appeal will be successful or that our Common Stock will not be delisted. The delisting of our Common Stock from trading on Nasdaq may have a material adverse effect on the market for, and liquidity and price of, our Common Stock and impair our ability to raise capital. Delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative results, including, without limitation, the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. If our Common Stock is delisted from trading on Nasdaq and if our Common Stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our Common Stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our Common Stock, and there may also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which may cause the price of our Common Stock to decline further. We need to increase our authorized shares in order to raise capital, pay term debt using shares of our Common Stock and execute our business plan and strategy We need to increase our authorized shares of Common Stock in order to raise capital, pay term debt and execute on our business strategy. Under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as presently in effect, we have 250 million shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value, authorized for issuance, of which 2 million shares are designated as non-voting Series B. As of January 15, 2010, we had 146.0 million shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding (including 1.0 million non-voting Series B), had reserved approximately 79.6 million shares for future issuance, and had not yet reserved for approximately 14.1 million shares that are potentially issuable under a commitment letter received from our lender. Accordingly, as of January 15, 2009, we only had approximately 10.3 million common shares available for future issuance (of which 1.0 million are non-voting Series B). 23 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to the terms of certain of our term debt obligations, we have the right, subject to certain conditions, to pay the principal amount due under those debt instruments using shares of our Common Stock. As of January 15, 2010, the number of shares of Common Stock that we would have to issue in order to pay those term debt obligations in full was 11.8 million. We have not reserved any shares for issuance in payment of those debt obligations. Under Delaware law, stockholder approval is required in order to amend our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock. We intend to include a proposal to amend our Certificate of Incorporation to increase our authorized shares of Common Stock at our next annual meeting of stockholders. However, we cannot provide any assurances that our stockholders will approve the proposal. If our stockholders do not approve the proposal, it would have a material adverse affect on our ability to raise sufficient capital in order to fund our operations, pay our term debt obligations using shares of our Common Stock and execute on our business strategy. Our shareholders are subject to significant dilution upon the occurrence of certain events. As of January 15, 2010, we had approximately 79.6 million shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance consisting of: (i) 4.4 million shares subject to outstanding stock options issued under our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan; (ii) 41.9 million shares subject to outstanding common stock purchase warrants; (iii) 14.0 million shares issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible debt; and (iv) 19.3 million shares issuable upon closing of our acquisition of Schneider Power, Inc. In addition, pursuant to the terms of certain of our term debt obligations, we have the right, subject to certain conditions, to pay the principal amount due under those debt instruments using shares of our Common Stock and we do intend to pay using shares of our Common Stock. As of January 15, 2010, the principal amount due under those specific debt instruments was approximately $9.1 million which, based on our stock price on January 15, 2010, would require us to issue approximately 11.8 million shares of our Common Stock to satisfy those debt obligations. The actual number of shares issued in payment of our term debt could be much higher or lower depending on our share price at the time such payment is made. The potential issuance of the shares described above will be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Included in the shares designated for future issuance discussed above are 6.4 million shares of our Common Stock that are subject to warrant contracts issued on October 27, 2006 that are currently exercisable at $0.612 per share (the “October 2006 Warrants”) and 16.7 million shares of our Common Stock that are subject to warrant contracts issued on August 25, 2008 that are currently exercisable at $3.245 per share (the “August 2008 Warrants”). The October 2006 warrants and the August 2008 Warrants also contain provisions which, subject to certain exceptions, resets the exercise prices of such warrants if at any time while such warrants are outstanding we sell or issue (or are deemed to sell or issue) shares of our Common Stock or rights, warrants, options or other securities or debt convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our Common Stock at a price below the current exercise price per share for these respective warrants; provided, however, the exercise price for the August 2008 Warrants cannot be reset below $1.930. In the event of future price resets, the number of shares of our Common Stock that are subject to such warrants increase so that the aggregate purchase price payable applicable to the exercise of the warrants after the reset of the exercise price is the same as the aggregate purchase price payable immediately prior to the reset. Any future resets to the exercise price of the October 2006 Warrants and/or the August 2008 Warrants will have a further dilutive effect on our existing shareholders. See additional information regarding shares designated for future issuance at Notes 11, 14 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements in the future. As a Nasdaq listed company, we are subject to all of Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements including maintaining a $1.00 minimum bid price. During the past six months, the closing bid price for a share of our Common Stock has been consistently near or below $1.00 per share. If the closing bid price for our Common Stock drops below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive days, then we will not be in compliance with Nasdaq’s minimum bid continued listing requirements and could be subject to delisting. Our failure to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements could result in the delisting of our Common Stock and could adversely affect the per share price of our Common Stock and impair our ability to raise capital. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock could adversely affect its market price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock into the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of options and warrants, issued in payment of debt obligations, and issued in subsequent offerings, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. To the extent that holders of a significant number of shares of our Common Stock, including General Motors, which holds approximately 4.5 million shares of our Common Stock and Series B Common Stock, choose to liquidate their investments in us, sales of such shares could have a negative impact upon the price of our Common Stock, particularly in the short term. From April 30, 2009 through September 4, 2009, we have issued a cumulative total of 27.1 million shares in connection with a private placement transaction and for payments on our long-term debt obligations. We anticipate that we will use additional shares in the future to satisfy additional debt obligations and other commitments and that the number of shares so issued will be substantial. Sales of such shares could have a negative impact upon the price of our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock may be volatile. Prior to July 2002, there was no trading market for our Common Stock. Since our Common Stock began trading in July 2002, its market price and trading volume have been volatile. The market price of our Common Stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors described in this Annual Report or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our Common Stock. Prices for our Common Stock may also be influenced by the depth and liquidity of the market for our Common Stock, investor perceptions about us and our business, our future financial results, the absence of cash dividends on our Common Stock and general economic and market conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert our management and other resources. Our future operating results may fluctuate, which could result in a lower price for our Common Stock. The market price of our Common Stock may decline below currently prevailing levels. The market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • delays by Fisker Automotive in the launch of their first production vehicle; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; 25 Table of Contents • gains or losses recognized in our consolidated statements of operations related to our derivative warrant and derivative debt instruments that are marked to market each period, and • general market and industry conditions and other factors. We may not be able to obtain waivers of potential defaults in the future from our lender if we do not meet future requirements associated with our amended credit facility and convertible promissory note. We received waivers of defaults from our lender on March 12, 2009, January 16, 2008 and December 14, 2007 related to our non-compliance with certain required debt service payments and covenants. We cannot provide any assurance that our lender would provide us with a waiver should we not be in compliance in the future. A failure to maintain compliance along with our lender not agreeing to a waiver for the non-compliance would cause the outstanding borrowings to be in default and payable on demand which would have a material adverse effect on us. We have a commitment to provide a guaranty to an affiliate’s credit facility that could be called upon if the affiliate defaults on the credit facility in the future. In connection with our acquisition of an ownership interest in our German solar affiliate, Asola, we committed to provide a 1.0 million euro guaranty to Asola’s bank to support an increase in Asola’s bank debt. Once the guaranty is put in place, if Asola were to default on the credit facility in the future, we could be called upon to repay the credit facility up to the limit of our guaranty. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Fisker Automotive represents a substantial portion of our existing and anticipated future revenues and these future revenues will depend on our ability to enter into future development programs and a long-term supply agreement with Fisker Automotive and Fisker Automotive’s success. We depend on our services to and contracts with Fisker Automotive for a substantial portion of our revenue and our anticipated hybrid electric propulsion systems development and production revenue will depend to a significant extent on our ability to enter into future development programs and a long-term supply agreement with Fisker Automotive and, if such agreements are obtained, the number of vehicles sold by Fisker Automotive. If we are unable to secure these programs and agreements, if there are changes or delays in Fisker Automotive’s internal plans for vehicle commercialization, or if the number of vehicles sold by Fisker Automotive is not substantial, our financial results would be adversely affected. Fisker Automotive will have to raise substantial additional capital for their business in order to have a chance to be successful. Fisker Automotive will have to raise substantial additional capital in order to complete future phases of development, testing and tooling for its Karma vehicle platform and future vehicle platforms. Fisker Automotive announced in September 2009 that they had received a conditional commitment from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for $528 million in low interest loans that will be used by Fisker Automotive to complete the development of the Fisker Karma program and to develop a next-generation lower-cost plug-in hybrid vehicle. Proceeds from the DOE loan commitment had not yet been made available to Fisker Automotive as of January 15, 2010. Release of the DOE loan proceeds is conditional on the occurrence of a number of events and we cannot provide any assurances when those events will occur, if at all. If Fisker Automotive is unable to raise sufficient capital, finalize the DOE loan, or meet the conditions required to access the DOE loan, they may not be able to fund the Karma development and production programs, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted. 26 Table of Contents Our fuel cell vehicle development and production revenue depends on our relationship with General Motors and General Motors’ viability and commitment to the commercialization of fuel cell vehicles. General Motors has represented a significant portion of our historical revenues and although our relationship with General Motors and our commitment to continue to develop hydrogen storage and handling systems for fuel cell vehicles together under our strategic alliance with General Motors continues, certain of our programs with General Motors have been delayed indefinitely and others have experienced funding restraints as a result of General Motors’ financial condition and the downturn in the automotive industry generally. Although we continue to provide services to General Motors, the level of such services was significantly reduced in fiscal year 2009 and through the first half of fiscal 2010 compared to prior years and we cannot determine when such activities and revenues will increase, if ever. Our ability to sell our products to the fuel cell automotive OEM markets depends to a significant extent upon General Motors’ and its partners’ worldwide sales and distribution network and service capabilities. Any change in strategy by General Motors with respect to fuel cells could harm our business by reducing or eliminating a substantial portion of our future sales, whether as a result of market, economic or competitive pressures, including any decision by General Motors: • to alter its commitment to our fuel storage, fuel delivery and electronic control technology in favor of other competing technologies; • to exit the automotive OEM alternative fuel or fuel cell markets; • to develop fuel cells or alternative fuel systems targeted at different application markets from ours; or • to focus on different energy product solutions. We have commitments under a corporate alliance agreement with General Motors that require us to spend up to $4 million annually for research and development projects directed by General Motors. Pursuant to our corporate alliance agreement with General Motors, we are required to spend up to $4.0 million annually on joint research and development projects directed by General Motors over a ten-year term that commenced in July 2002. Although this commitment was waived or partially waived by General Motors for calendar years 2002 through 2009 and is expected to be fully or partially waived for 2010, we cannot provide any assurance that General Motors will continue to waive this commitment in whole or part in the future. The annual commitment under our agreement with General Motors could be financially burdensome and may impact our ability to achieve profitability in the future. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products. In particular, we rely upon certain smaller, start-up companies for the supply of key components on our Q-Drive hybrid propulsion system. These companies may experience product development, resource and funding constraints that could impact their ability to supply components in a timely manner, if at all. Further, a prolonged downturn in the automotive industry could have a crippling effect on the automotive supplier chain which, in turn, could result in failures and disruptions in the supply of parts and components to us and our materially affect our ability to meet our supply obligations to Fisker Automotive and other customers. Our business depends on the growth of hybrid electric, hydrogen, and alternative fuel based vehicles and the solar industry. Our future success depends on the continued expansion of hybrid electric, hydrogen and alternative fuel based vehicles and the solar industry. The market for these types of vehicles and for solar technologies and products is influenced by and our sales may be negatively impacted by a number of factors some of which include the level of 27 Table of Contents oil prices, battery durability improvements, levels of investment tax credits and regulation, availability of raw materials for photovoltaic module production, capital formation, interest rates and consumer disposable income. The adoption of alternative fuel based vehicles and green energy initiatives are highly dependent on macro-economic conditions, specifically oil prices and the overall health of the economy. We believe when oil prices fall, the general attention placed on the development of advanced technology vehicles diminishes. Similarly, we believe consumers are less willing to spend a “technology premium” when faced with economic uncertainty. The downturn in the world economy is placing a tremendous strain on the automotive industry, including slowing demand for vehicles and limited funding for alternative fuel vehicle programs outside of governmental grant and loan programs. Additionally, we cannot provide any assurances that the markets for hybrid electric vehicles and other alternative energy based vehicles will gain broad acceptance in any economic environment or, if they do, that they will result in increased sales of our hybrid vehicles and advanced fuel system products. Our business depends on auto manufacturers’ timing for pre-production development programs and commercial production. If there are delays in the advancement of OEM alternative fuel technologies or in our OEM customers’ internal plans for advanced vehicle commercialization, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our ability to design and manufacture powertrain and fuel systems for hybrid, hydrogen and fuel cell, hydrogen applications that can be integrated into new vehicle platforms will be critical to our business and our ability to successfully complete existing development programs. We are currently developing and integrating an advanced hybrid propulsion system for a production intent vehicle. This hybrid electric drive system, including a battery software management system, is being designed to meet strict design and packaging requirements of our affiliate, Fisker Automotive. In addition, we currently offer packaged fuel systems, which include tanks, brackets, electronics, software and other components required to allow these products to operate in fuel cells, hybrids, or other alternative fuel applications. Customers for these systems require that these products meet either their strict design standards or OEM level standards that can vary by jurisdiction. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in increased development, manufacturing, warranty and administrative costs. A significant increase in these costs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to meet OEM or customer specifications on a timely basis, our existing or future relationships with our OEM and other customers may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be commercially viable, our products and systems generally must be integrated into products manufactured by OEMs. We can offer no assurance that OEMs will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our hybrid and fuel cell products and systems. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by OEMs could adversely affect the market for our hybrid and fuel cell products and systems, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers and we expect this trend to continue. During fiscal year 2009, our revenues from Fisker Automotive comprised 59% of our total revenues and we expect our revenues from Fisker Automotive in fiscal year 2010 to again represent a substantial portion of our total revenues. Our customer arrangements, including our arrangements with Fisker Automotive, generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products and services. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business 28 Table of Contents with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Decrease in demand or price for solar cells could have an adverse effect on our financial statements. We, through our affiliate Asola, have entered into a long-term supply agreement under which we have agreed to purchase solar cells with a cumulative power of 77.5 mega watts peak (MWp) through December 31, 2017 at pre-determined quantities that could cause us to hold larger than expected quantities of inventory on hand as a result of future decreased demand, and at pre-determined prices that could be above market rates in the future that could cause us to incur losses on the sale of products manufactured utilizing the solar cells. The spot trading prices for solar cell deliveries in calendar 2009 have decreased to levels that are currently below prices that we have secured for this applicable period under our long-term supply agreement. Asola has engaged in negotiations with the supplier of the solar cells to adjust the stated pricing under the supply agreement in a fair and reasonable manner to account for the change in economic circumstances under a “loyalty clause” of the supply agreement. These negotiations have not been successful and the supplier of the solar cells and Asola is pursuing legal recourse against Asola. It is possible that these negotiations and legal outcomes will determine that the contract pricing will either not be amended or that the amended prices could result in future losses on the sale of products manufactured utilizing the solar cells. If it is determined that a loss is probable on our remaining commitments to purchase the solar cells, we will be required to record a charge in the future for the difference between our remaining unconditional commitments and our estimated net realizable value and that charge could be material. See further discussion at Off Balance Sheet Disclosures in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other similar transactions may not be successful. We have consummated and may continue to consummate acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures and strategic alliances in order to provide increased capabilities to our existing products, supply new products and services or enhance our distribution channels. We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of and investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, geographic locations, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, or incur unforeseen expenses in consummating future acquisitions or other investments, we could incur unanticipated expenses and losses. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that those transactions or relationships will be successful. Any transactions or relationships will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with those matters. Risks that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include, among other things: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the distraction of management from our business; • the unexpected loss of customers of the acquired business; • the potential inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position as a result of an acquisition or investment; 29 Table of Contents • the potential for costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the risk of entering market segments in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such market segments have stronger market segment positions; • the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal controls of any acquired company or investments that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal controls taken as a whole; • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; and • the potential dilution of earnings through acquisitions and options granted to employees of acquired companies or businesses. Future acquisitions or investments could result in our incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, including environmental, tax or other liabilities. These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to generate cash and ability to make required payments on our debt. Failure to secure financing for Quantum Solar could adversely affect our operating results We have a long-term lease agreement for our 88,000 square foot facility located in Irvine, California, which is currently underutilized. We intend for our subsidiary, Quantum Solar, to use that facility as its solar panel manufacturing facility. We also have made deposits totaling approximately $2.1 million on solar manufacturing equipment to be used by Quantum Solar. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund the commissioning of solar manufacturing plant and Quantum Solar’s operations, the cost associated with maintaining the Irvine facility will adversely affect our operations as long as it continues to be underutilized and we could forfeit the equipment deposits. Future acquisitions could harm our operating results and share price. Any acquisitions could materially harm our operating results as a result of issuances of dilutive equity securities or payment of cash. In addition, the purchase price of any acquired businesses may exceed the current fair values of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill, and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. We could become subject to stockholder litigation associated with our merger with and subsequent disposition of the Tecstar Automotive Group business segment. Stockholders of companies involved in mergers sometimes file lawsuits that allege, among other things, improprieties in the manner in which mergers or dispositions of business units were approved or executed. We are not aware of any stockholder claims or potential claims with respect to our merger with or subsequent disposition of the Tecstar Automotive Group business segment, but such claims could arise in the future. Any such claims, whether or not resolved in our favor, could divert our management and other resources from the operation of our business and otherwise result in unexpected and substantial expenses that adversely and materially impact our operating results. 30 Table of Contents We may never be able to introduce commercially viable hybrid propulsion systems and hydrogen products. We do not know whether or when we will successfully introduce commercially viable hybrid propulsion systems and hydrogen products. We have produced and are currently demonstrating a number of test and evaluation systems and are continuing efforts to decrease the costs of these products and systems and to improve their overall functionality and efficiency. However, we must complete substantial additional product development and engineering validation on these hybrid propulsion and hydrogen products and systems before we can introduce commercially viable hybrid propulsion and hydrogen products and systems. Even if we are able to do so, these efforts will still depend upon the success of other companies in producing related and necessary products for use in conjunction with commercially viable hybrids, fuel cells and other hydrogen applications. A mass market for hybrid, plug-in electric hybrid and hydrogen products and systems may never develop or may take longer to develop than anticipated. Plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell and hydrogen systems represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale or whether OEMs will incorporate these technologies into their products. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for plug-in electric hybrid and hydrogen powered transportation applications, we may be unable to recover our expenditures to develop our fuel systems for hydrogen applications and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, any of which could negatively impact our business. Estimates for the development of a mass market for fuel cell products and systems have lengthened in recent years and we believe may continue to lengthen as a result of the success of hybrid and electric-based vehicle technologies. Many factors that are beyond our control may have a negative effect on the development of a mass market for fuel cells and our fuel systems for hydrogen applications. These factors include the following: • downturn in the economic environment which may continue to put downward pressure on the price of oil and negatively impact hydrogen and fuel cell vehicle development spending; • cost competitiveness and physical size of fuel cell systems and “balance of plant” components (fuel metering and regulation, bi-directional flow monitoring, sensors, etc.); • availability, future costs and safety of hydrogen, natural gas and other potential fuel cell fuels; • consumer acceptance of hydrogen or alternative fuel products; • government funding and support for the development of hydrogen vehicles and hydrogen fuel infrastructure; • the willingness of OEMs to replace current technology; • consumer perceptions of hydrogen systems; • regulatory requirements; and • emergence of newer, breakthrough technologies and products within the automotive industry. Evolving customer design requirements, product specifications and testing procedures could cause order delays or cancellations. We have experienced delays in shipping our products in the past as a result of changing customer specifications and testing procedures. Due to the dynamic nature of hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell technology, changes in specifications are common and may result in delayed shipments, order cancellations or higher production costs. Evolving design requirements or product specifications may adversely affect our business or financial results. 31 Table of Contents The terms and enforceability of many of our strategic partner relationships are uncertain. We have entered into relationships with strategic partners for design, product development and distribution of our existing products, and products under development, some of which may not have been documented by a definitive agreement. Where definitive agreements govern the relationships between us and our partners, the terms and conditions of many of these agreements allow for termination by the partners. Termination of any of these agreements could adversely affect our ability to design, develop and distribute these products to the marketplace. Although substantially all of our current revenues are attributable to enforceable written or verbal agreements, we do have several strategic relationships that are governed by a nonbinding memorandum of understanding or letters of intent. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate and execute definitive agreements with any of these potential partners, and failure to do so may effectively terminate the relevant relationship. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. Our products face and will continue to face significant competition. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources, are currently engaged in the development of plug-in electric hybrid, hydrogen and electric hybrid propulsion products and technologies that are similar to, or may be competitive with, certain of our products and technologies. Because the plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell and hybrid propulsion technologies have the potential to replace existing power sources, competition for plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fueled vehicles may cause OEMs to find it advantageous to develop and produce their own hybrid propulsion or fuel management equipment rather than purchase the equipment from us. In addition, greater acceptance of plug-in electric hybrid, electric vehicles and alternative fuel engines or fuel cells may result in new competitors. Furthermore, there are competitors, including OEMs, working on developing other plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technologies in our targeted markets. A large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan possess plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technology and/or are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of plug-in electric, fuel cells and hybrid vehicles. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have financial resources, customer bases, businesses or other resources which give them significant competitive advantages. We depend on our intellectual property, and our failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. Our failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation, and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We have not conducted formal evaluations to confirm that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If infringement were to occur, our development, manufacturing, sales and distribution of such technology or products may be disrupted. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope 32 Table of Contents and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of the patents we have filed or other patents that third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage we seek, if issued at all. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. For instance, it may be difficult for us to enforce certain of our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have inappropriately acquired interests in our intellectual property rights by filing unauthorized trademark applications in foreign countries to register our marks because of their familiarity with our business in the United States. Some of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by any patent or patent application, and, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. We have generally sought to protect such proprietary intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees, although such agreements have not been put in place in every instance. We cannot guarantee that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property or proprietary rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Furthermore, the steps we have taken and may take in the future may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in respect of officers and employees who are no longer employed by us or in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary intellectual property used in our principal products. This may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by others. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property litigation, in the future we may commence lawsuits against others if we believe they have infringed our rights, or we may become subject to lawsuits alleging that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. For example, to the extent that we have previously incorporated third-party technology and/or know-how into certain products for which we do not have sufficient license rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to pay substantial damages or royalties, or even be forced to cease sales in the event any owner of such technology or know-how were to challenge our subsequent sale of such products (and any progeny thereof). In addition, to the extent that we discover or have discovered third-party patents that may be applicable to products or processes in development, we may need to take steps to avoid claims of possible infringement, including obtaining non-infringement or invalidity opinions and, when necessary, re-designing or re-engineering products. However, we cannot assure you that these precautions will allow us to successfully avoid infringement claims. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or 33 Table of Contents • obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited experience manufacturing hybrid propulsion and fuel systems for fuel cell applications on a commercial basis. To date, we have limited experience manufacturing propulsion and fuel systems for hybrid, plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell and hydrogen applications on a commercial basis. In order to produce propulsion systems for hybrid and fuel cell applications at affordable prices, we will have to produce hybrid and fuel cell drive systems through high volume automated processes. We do not know whether we, or our suppliers, will be able to develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards, or production volumes required to successfully mass market our propulsion systems for hybrid and fuel cell applications. Even if we, or our suppliers, are successful in developing our high volume manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedules or to satisfy the requirements of customers. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones. We have product development programs that are in the pre-commercial stage. The success of each product development program is highly dependent on our correct interpretation of commercial market requirements, and our translation of those requirements into applicable product specifications and appropriate development milestones. If we have misinterpreted market requirements, or if the requirements of the market change, we may develop a product that does not meet the cost and performance requirements for a successful commercial product. In addition, if we do not meet the required development milestones, our commercialization schedules could be delayed, which could result in potential purchasers of these products declining to purchase additional systems or choosing to purchase alternative technologies. Delayed commercialization schedules may also impact our cash flow, which could require increased funding. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and maintain key personnel. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers, technicians, machinists and management personnel. For example, our research and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for highly skilled engineers is extremely intense, and we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on our chairman of the board, our chief executive officer, or our chief financial officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to increased warranty claims as our products go to production due to longer warranty periods. In response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers require 34 Table of Contents their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. Our business may be subject to product liability claims or product recalls, which could be expensive and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of products and systems to automotive OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Our other products may also be subject to product liability claims or recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our insurance may not be sufficient. We carry insurance that we consider adequate in regard to the nature of the covered risks and the costs of coverage. We are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. Our business may become subject to future product certification regulations, which may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and internationally. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. The failure to comply with these certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or in civil or criminal penalties. We anticipate that regulatory bodies will establish certification procedures and impose regulations on fuel cell enabling technologies, which may impair our ability to distribute, install and service these systems. Any new government regulation that affects our advanced fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and servicing of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and harm our results of operations. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, and as a result are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and hazardous waste products that we generate. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, including a discharge of 35 Table of Contents hazardous materials into the environment, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our insurance and other resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including new or revised safety or environmental standards, could give rise to significant liability and require us to incur substantial expenses and could materially harm our results of operations. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. A range of other technologies could compete with plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell, hydrogen, hybrid or other technologies on which our automotive business is currently focused. Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop and market new or modified hybrid and fuel cell products and systems. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell, hybrid and other forms of alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are driven, to a significant degree, by local, state and federal regulations that relate to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants, and that require the purchase of motor vehicles and equipment operating on alternative fuels or fuel cells. Similarly, foreign governmental regulations also affect our international business. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in alternative fuel and fuel cell powered vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current domestic and foreign laws or to adopt additional environmental laws could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, and fuel cells in particular, we cannot assure you that governments will not change their priorities or that any change they make would not materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. The development of uniform codes and standards for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and related hydrogen refueling infrastructure may not develop in a timely fashion. Uniform codes and standards do not currently exist for fuel cell systems, fuel cell components or the use of hydrogen as a vehicle fuel. Establishment of appropriate codes and standards is a critical element to allow fuel cell system developers, fuel cell component developers and hydrogen storage and handling companies to develop products that will be accepted in the marketplace. All fuels, including hydrogen, pose significant safety hazards, and hydrogen vehicles have not yet been widely used under “real-world” driving conditions. Ensuring that hydrogen fuel is safe to use by the car-driving public requires that appropriate codes and standards be established that will address certain characteristics of hydrogen and the safe handling of hydrogen fuels. The development of fuel cell and hydrogen fuel applicable standards is being undertaken by numerous organizations, including the American National Standards Institute, the American Society of Mechanical 36 Table of Contents Engineers, the European Integrated Hydrogen Project, the International Code Council, the International Standards Organization, the National Fire Protection Association, the National Hydrogen Association, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the Canadian Standards Association, the American National Standards Institute and the International Electrotechnical Commission. Given the number of organizations pursuing hydrogen and fuel cell codes and standards, it is not clear whether universally accepted codes and standards will result and, if so, when. Although many organizations have identified as a significant priority the development of codes and standards, we cannot assure you that any resulting codes and standards would not materially affect our revenue or the commercialization of our products. The recently completed restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. In October 2009, we announced that our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2007 and April 30, 2008 on Form 10-K and each of the quarterly condensed consolidated financial statements on Form 10-Q for the periods ended October 31, 2006 through January 31, 2009 could no longer be relied upon due to errors identified in the accounting for and classification of derivative instruments associated with debt arrangements and warrant contracts. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will have no further inquiries from the SEC or NASDAQ regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Further, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced stockholder lawsuits related thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. As described in greater detail elsewhere in this Annual Report, in connection with the restatement process, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness primarily relates to our misapplication of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting For Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (FAS 133), and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock” (EITF 00-19), as it related to the accounting for and classification of embedded features contained within certain debt instruments and warrant instruments dating back to October 2006 that we had previously classified as equity. Upon a reassessment of those financial instruments, we determined that we had incorrectly accounted for certain derivative liabilities contained in those financial instruments. Given this material weakness, management was unable to conclude that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of April 30, 2009. Since the determination regarding our material weakness, we have devoted significant effort and resources to the remediation and improvement of our internal control over financial reporting for derivative instruments. In 37 Table of Contents particular, we have expanded our knowledge of the application of FAS 133 and EITF 00-19 and revised our internal review process to better identify derivative financial instruments. Although we believe that these efforts and resources have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting and address the concern that gave rise to the material weakness as of April 30, 2009, we cannot be certain that our expanded knowledge and revised internal control practices will ensure that we maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and NASDAQ, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse affect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Provisions of Delaware law and of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may make a takeover or change in control more difficult. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and of Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and Board of Directors oppose. Public stockholders that might desire to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for the following: • a staggered Board of Directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors in any one year; • the exclusive right of the Board of Directors to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the Board of Directors; • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our Common Stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control of us; • advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which could delay a third party from pursuing an acquisition; and • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and requiring the affirmative vote of 80% of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain other provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, which could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and the Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 38 Table of Contents 