ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWest Bancorporation's business is conducted almost exclusively through West Bank. West Bancorporation and West Bank are subject to many of the common risks that challenge publicly traded, regulated financial institutions. An investment in West Bancorporation's common stock is also subject to the following specific risks.Risks Related to West Bancorporation's BusinessOur loan portfolio primarily includes commercial loans, which involve risks specific to commercial borrowers. The largest component of West Bank's income is interest received on loans. West Bank is in substantial part a business bank. Its loan portfolio includes a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, construction or land development loans, commercial lines of credit, and commercial term loans. West Bank's typical commercial borrower is a small or medium-sized privately-owned Iowa business entity. Our commercial loans typically have greater credit risks than standard residential mortgage or consumer loans because commercial loans often have larger balances and repayment usually depends on the borrowers' successful business operations. Commercial loans also involve some additional risk because they generally are not fully repaid over the loan period and thus usually require refinancing or a large payoff at maturity. If the general economy turns substantially downward, commercial borrowers may not be able to repay their loans and the value of their assets, which are usually pledged as collateral, may decrease rapidly and significantly. Also, when credit markets tighten due to adverse developments in specific markets or the general economy, opportunities for refinancing may become more expensive or unavailable, resulting in loan defaults. Our success is also dependent to a large extent upon the areas in which we operate. Competition for quality loans in our market area continues to be robust.Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans, which involve risks specific to real estate value.Commercial real estate loans were a significant portion of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse developments affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Additionally, real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of the loans generally is dependent, in large part, on sufficient income from the properties securing the loans to cover operating expenses and debt service. Economic events or governmental regulations outside of the control of the borrower or lender could negatively impact the future cash flow and market values of the affected properties.If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.We must effectively manage our credit risks.Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. There are obvious risks inherent in making loans. We attempt to reduce our credit risk through prudent loan application, underwriting, and approval procedures, including internal loan reviews before and after proceeds have been disbursed, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, and collateral and guarantee requirements. These procedures cannot, however, be expected to completely eliminate our credit risks, and we can make no guarantees concerning the strength of our loan portfolio.Nonperforming loans take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.At December 31, 2012, West Bank's nonperforming loans, which consist of nonaccrual loans, loans past due 90 days and still accruing, and troubled debt restructured (TDR) loans, totaled $7.3 million or 0.78 percent of our loan portfolio. While this total has declined over the past five years to be in line with our historical experience, nonperforming loans adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, thereby negatively affecting our income and returns on assets and equity, and our administrative costs increase significantly. Nonperforming loans require significant time commitments from management and our lending staff, which takes time away from other duties, including the generation of new business. There is no assurance that we will experience continued reductions in nonperforming loans in the future.15Table of ContentsVarious factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase.Our allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses based on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns. In addition, general factors unique to each measurement date are considered, including economic conditions in certain geographic or industry segments of the loan portfolio, economic trends, risk profile, and portfolio composition. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes in a short period of time. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, many of which are not within our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. West Bank may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships unexpectedly becomes delinquent or experiences significant financial difficulties. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review West Bank's allowance for loan losses and may require West Bank to increase the provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. A significant increase in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with real estate collateral securing our loans.A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. Under certain circumstances, we may take title to the real property collateral through foreclosure or other means. As the titleholder of the property, we may be responsible for environmental risks, such as hazardous materials, which attach to the property. For these reasons, prior to extending credit, we have an environmental risk assessment program to identify any known environmental risks associated with the real property which will secure our loans. In addition, we routinely inspect properties following the taking of title. When environmental risks are found, environmental laws and regulations may prescribe our approach to remediation. As a result, we may incur substantial expense and bear potential liability for any damages caused. The environmental risks may also materially reduce the property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the property. If we are unable to sell the other real estate owned for the estimated fair value on our balance sheets it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Other real estate owned consists of real estate collateral that the Company has received in foreclosure or accepted in lieu of foreclosure on nonperforming loans. Management obtains independent appraisals to determine that these properties are initially carried at fair value less estimated costs to sell at the date of foreclosure. The appraisals are updated at least annually, and any subsequent write-downs are recorded as charges to operations. Future economic conditions could result in reductions of our estimates of fair value for other real estate owned and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If a significant portion of any future unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were to become other than temporarily impaired with credit losses, we would recognize a material charge to our earnings, and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted.As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of our securities portfolio was approximately $292.3 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of those securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other than temporary impairment (OTTI) in future periods and result in realized losses. We analyze our investment securities quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, any of the securities have OTTI. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to have OTTI and is credit loss related, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to have OTTI when it appears unlikely that we will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. In addition to credit losses, losses are recognized for a security having an unrealized loss if the Company has the intent to sell the security or if it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before collection of the principal amount.16Table of ContentsOur accounting policies and methods are the basis for how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure they comply with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances; the application of that chosen accounting policy or method might result in us reporting different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative.We have identified three accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) determining the fair value and possible OTTI of investment securities available for sale, (2) determining the valuation of other real estate owned, and (3) the allowance for loan losses. Because of the inherent uncertainty of these estimates, no assurance can be given that application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the reporting of different amounts of the fair value of securities available for sale, the fair value of other real estate owned, the allowance for loan losses, and net income.We are subject to liquidity risks.West Bank maintains liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other short-term funding sources, including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and purchased federal funds. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, West Bank might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest income, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in the Company or West Bank realizing losses.Although West Bank's current sources of funds are adequate for its liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard for the future. Liquidity issues during the financial crisis were severe for regional and community banks, as some of the larger financial institutions significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. If this were to occur to us, and additional debt is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such debt would be available or, if available, would be on favorable terms. The competition for banking and financial services in our market areas is high, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We operate in highly competitive markets and face strong competition in originating loans, in seeking deposits, and in offering our other services. We compete in making loans, attracting deposits, and recruiting and retaining talented people. The Des Moines metropolitan market area, in particular, has attracted many new financial institutions within the last two decades. We also compete with nonbank financial service providers, many of which are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions that we are and may be able to compete more effectively as a result. Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially if those offerings are priced lower than our products. Some of our competitors may also be better able to attract customers because they provide products and services over a larger geographic area than we serve. This competitive climate can make it more difficult to establish and maintain relationships with new and existing customers and can lower the rate that we are able to charge on loans, increase the rates we must offer on deposits, and affect our charges for other services. Those factors can, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth and profitability depend on our continued ability to compete effectively within our market and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. 17Table of ContentsOur inability to continue to accurately process large volumes of transactions could adversely impact our business and financial results. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis in our branches and through our processor and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside West Bank, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that are designed to provide us with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. These systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost-effective levels. Procedures also exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. From time to time, losses from operational risk may occur, including the consequences of operational errors. While we continually monitor and improve the system of internal controls, data processing systems and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur.Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results and could increase the risk of fraud.Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Management believes that our internal controls over financial reporting are currently effective. While management will continue to assess our controls and procedures and take immediate action to remediate any future perceived issues, there can be no guarantee of the effectiveness of these controls and procedures on an on-going basis. Any failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could impact our ability to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact our business operations and stock price.Cybersecurity events could negatively affect our reputation, subject us to financial loss, or result in litigation.West Bank has access to large amounts of confidential financial information, and controls substantial financial assets belonging to its customers, as well as the Company. West Bank offers its customers continuous remote access to their accounts in several different ways and otherwise regularly transfers substantial financial assets by electronic means. Accordingly, cybersecurity is a material risk for West Bank.West Bank depends on data processing, communication, and information exchange on a variety of platforms, networks, and over the internet. West Bank cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards that it has installed. West Bank does business with a number of third-party service providers and vendors with respect to West Bank's business, data, and communications needs. If information security is breached, or if one of West Bank's employees or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated in manners resulting in financial loss to West Bank, damages to others, or potential litigation. Cyber incidents such as computer break-ins, phishing, identity theft, and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us in excess of any applicable insurance coverage, and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business.Our business depends upon earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers, investors, and employees. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, compliance failures, litigation, or governmental investigations. In addition, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation, and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs, and harm to our reputation. Adverse publicity about West Bank, whether or not true, may result in harm to our business. Should any events or factors that can undermine our reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses to address the issues giving rise to the reputational harm would not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18Table of ContentsEmployee, customer, or third-party fraud could cause substantial losses.West Bank's business involves financial assets. Financial assets are always potential targets for fraudulent activities. Employee, customer, or third-party fraud could subject us to operational losses, regulatory sanctions, and could seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees, customers, or third-parties could include unauthorized activities, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of a customer, deceit, or misappropriation. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks; however, it is not always possible to prevent such conduct. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds our insurance limits, a fraud could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. Fraud does not even have to be aimed at West Bank to cause a loss. Losses are possible even where a customer is the victim of fraud or misappropriation of assets if bank collateral is involved. We may experience difficulties in managing our growth.As previously stated, we plan to open a loan production office in Rochester, Minnesota. In the future, we may decide to expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets through opportunistic acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions or related businesses that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business, or by opening new branches or loan production offices. To the extent that we undertake acquisitions or new office openings, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expense relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity, and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management's time and attention and general disruption to our business.To the extent that we grow through acquisitions or office openings, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage such growth. Acquiring other banks and businesses will involve risks similar to those commonly associated with new office openings but may also involve additional risks. These additional risks include potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire, exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired bank or related business, difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks and businesses we acquire, and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks and businesses we acquire.Maintaining or increasing our market share may depend on lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and services.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increased pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in our business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on business demand deposits could increase our interest expense and have a material adverse effect on us. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on business demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, some financial institutions have commenced offering interest on these demand deposits to compete for customers. If competitive pressures require us to pay interest on these demand deposits to attract and retain business customers, our interest expense would increase and our net interest margin would decrease. This could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, the effect of the repeal of the prohibition could be more significant in a higher interest rate environment as business customers would have a greater incentive to seek interest on demand deposits.The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers or key personnel could cause our business to suffer.Much of our success is due to our ability to attract and retain senior management and key personnel experienced in bank and financial services and who are very involved in the communities in our market area. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of a relatively few individuals. The loss of services of a few of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, at least in the short term. In addition, our success depends in significant part upon our senior management's ability to develop and implement our business strategies.19Table of ContentsDisruption of infrastructure could adversely impact our operations. Our operations depend upon our technological and physical infrastructures, particularly those located at our home office. Extended disruption of our vital infrastructures due to fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, computer hacking and viruses, or other events could detrimentally affect our financial performance. We have developed disaster recovery plans to mitigate this risk.Risks Related to West Bancorporation's Common StockOur stock is relatively thinly traded.Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume of our common stock is relatively small compared to many public companies. The desired market characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness require the substantial presence of willing buyers and sellers in the marketplace at any given time. In our case, this presence depends on the individual decisions of a relatively small number of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Due to the relatively small trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the stock price to fall more than would be justified by the inherent worth of the Company. Conversely, attempts to purchase a significant amount of our stock could cause the market price to rise above the reasonable inherent worth of the Company.There can be no assurances concerning continuing dividend payments.Our common stockholders are only entitled to receive the dividends declared by our Board of Directors. In 2012, our Board declared a cash dividend on our common stock in the first and second quarters of $0.08 per share and a dividend of $0.10 per share in the third and fourth quarters, and in January 2013 a dividend of $0.10 per common share was declared. Although we have historically paid quarterly dividends on our common stock, there can be no assurances that we will be able to continue to pay regular quarterly dividends or in any particular amount. The primary source of money to pay our dividends comes from dividends paid to the Company by West Bank. West Bank's ability to pay dividends to West Bancorporation is subject to, among other things, its earnings, financial condition, and applicable regulations, which in some instances limit the amount that may be paid as dividends. In addition, the Company must pay any dividends due on its junior subordinated debentures before it can issue a dividend on its common stock.Issuing additional common or preferred stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or capital may not be available when needed.The Company may issue additional common or preferred shares in order to raise capital at some date in the future to support continued growth, internally generated or through an acquisition. Common shares will be issued through the Company's 2012 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan) as grants of restricted stock units (RSUs) vest. As additional shares of common or preferred stock are issued, the ownership interests of our existing stockholders may be diluted. The market price of our common stock might decline or fail to advance in response to issuing additional common or preferred shares. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, at acceptable terms.We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to an inability to raise capital, operational losses, or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected.The Company and West Bank are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations, and we expect that the capital requirements imposed by the regulators will increase in the future. The ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market conditions, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital, if needed, or on terms acceptable to us. Failure to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, the costs of funds, FDIC insurance costs, the ability to pay dividends on common stock and to make distributions on the junior subordinated debentures, the ability to make acquisitions, results of operations, and financial condition.20Table of ContentsThe holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders.As of December 31, 2012, the Company had $20.6 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding which were issued to the Company's subsidiary trust, West Bancorporation Capital Trust I. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company's shares of common stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities (TPS)) before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of the Company's bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the common stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related TPS) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company's common stock. The Company's ability to pay future distributions depends upon the earnings of West Bank and the dividends from West Bank to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. Interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures underlying the TPS are classified as a “dividend” by the Federal Reserve supervisory policies and therefore are subject to applicable restrictions and approvals imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on the Company.Risks Related to the Banking Industry in General and Community Banking in ParticularWe may be materially and adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and examination. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, FDIC funds, customers, and the banking system as a whole, rather than stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. As a bank holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. We undergo periodic examinations by our regulators, who have extensive discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. The primary federal and state banking laws and regulations that affect us are described in this report under the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation.” These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. For example, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, together with the regulations to be developed thereunder, includes provisions affecting large and small financial institutions alike, including several provisions that affect how community banks, thrifts, and small bank and thrift holding companies are and will be regulated. In addition, the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations in recent years addressing banks' overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Further, the CFPB was recently established, with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws, and additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. In September 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III, which constitutes a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. In the United States, Basel III is currently the subject of notices of proposed rulemakings released in June of 2012 by the respective federal bank regulatory agencies. The comment period for these notices of proposed rulemakings ended on October 22, 2012, but final regulations have not yet been released. Basel III was intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013 and to be fully-phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. However, on November 9, 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies announced that the implementation of the proposed rules under Basel III was indefinitely delayed. If and when implemented, Basel III would require capital to be held in the form of tangible common equity, generally increase the required capital ratios, phase out certain kinds of intangibles treated as capital and certain types of instruments, like trust preferred securities, and change the risk weightings of assets used to determine required capital ratios. Such changes, including changes regarding interpretations and implementation, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. U.S. financial institutions are also subject to numerous monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements designed to detect and prevent illegal activities such as money laundering and terrorist financing. These requirements are imposed primarily through the Bank Secrecy Act, which was most recently amended by the USA Patriot Act. We have instituted policies and procedures to protect us and our employees, to the extent reasonably possible, from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and other financial crimes. There can be no guarantee, however, that these policies and procedures will be effective.Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil monetary penalties, and/or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have policies and procedures designed to mitigate the risk of any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. 21Table of ContentsIn addition to the foregoing, the policies of the Federal Reserve also have a significant impact on us. Among other things, the Federal Reserve's monetary policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits, and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold and the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on us.Our business is subject to domestic and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and could materially and adversely affect us. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the United States was greatly reduced. In addition, local governments and many businesses continue to experience difficulty due to lower consumer spending and decreased liquidity in the credit markets. Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the DIF, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by financial institutions compared to pre-recession levels. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of customers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment not only in the markets where we operate but also in the state of Iowa generally and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors: economic growth; efficient capital markets; low inflation; low unemployment; high business and investor confidence; and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Further, concerns about the European Union's sovereign debt crisis have also caused uncertainty for financial markets globally in recent years. Such risks could indirectly affect us by affecting our hedging or other counterparties, as well as our customers with European businesses or assets denominated in the euro or companies in our market with European businesses or affiliates. Overall, although showing signs of improvement, the business environment in recent years was unfavorable for many households and businesses in the United States. While economic conditions in our market, the state of Iowa, and the United States have generally improved since the recession, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue or occur at a meaningful rate. Such conditions could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Earnings in the banking industry, particularly the community bank segment, are substantially dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. During the last few years interest rates have been at historically low levels. If interest rates increase, banks will experience competitive pressures to increase rates paid on deposits. Depending on competitive pressures, such deposit rate increases may increase faster than rates received on loans, which may reduce net interest income during the transition periods. Changes in interest rates could also influence our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of our securities portfolio. Community banks, such as West Bank, rely more heavily on net interest income than do larger institutions that have additional non-lending sources of income.Technological advances.The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables banks to better serve customers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively implement new technology. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer, or more quickly offer, additional or superior products that put West Bank at some competitive disadvantage.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff.22Table of Contents