Item 1A. Risk Factors Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risks and uncertainties. The factors described below are risks that could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may have a material adverse impact on our future operations. Risks Related to Our Business Competition, Markets, and Operations Our business is impacted by changes in general economic conditions and information technology spending in particular. Our business is subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Slowdowns, recessions, economic instability, political unrest, armed conflicts, or natural disasters around the world may cause companies and governments to delay, reduce, or even cancel planned spending. In particular, declines in information technology spending and limited or reduced government budgets have affected the market for our products in certain periods and in certain regions, especially in industries or areas that are or have experienced significant cost-cutting. Customers or partners who are facing business challenges or liquidity issues are also more likely to delay purchase decisions or cancel orders, as well as to delay or default on payments. If customers or partners significantly reduce their spending with us or significantly delay or fail to make payments to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. During the recent recession, like 20 Table of Contents many companies, we engaged in significant cost-saving measures. Current economic conditions are also uncertain. If economic conditions require us to again undertake significant cost-saving measures, such measures may negatively impact our ability to execute on our objectives and grow, particularly if we are not able to invest in our business as a result of a protracted economic downturn. Intense competition in our markets and competitors with greater resources than us may limit our market share, profitability, and growth. We face aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all of our markets, making it difficult to maintain market share, remain profitable, invest, and grow. Our competitors may be able to more quickly develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies, better respond to changes in customer requirements or preferences, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Some of our competitors have, in relation to us, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer standing relationships with customers, greater name recognition, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service, public relations, distribution, or other resources. There has also been significant consolidation among our competitors, which has improved the competitive position of several of these companies. In recent years, several companies significantly larger than we are have also entered or increased their presence in our markets through internal development, partnerships, and acquisitions. We also face competition from solutions developed internally by our customers or partners. To the extent that we cannot compete effectively, our market share and, therefore, results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because price and related terms are key considerations for many of our customers, we may have to accept less-favorable payment terms, lower the prices of our products and services, and/or reduce our cost structure, including reducing headcount or investment in research and development, in order to remain competitive. Certain of our competitors have become increasingly aggressive in their pricing strategy, particularly in markets where they are trying to establish a foothold or defend existing installations. If we are forced to take these kinds of actions to remain competitive in the short-term, such actions may adversely impact our ability to execute and compete in the long-term. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, and if we cannot anticipate and react to such changes and continually innovate our products and technologies our results may suffer. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technology, new delivery platforms such as SaaS, the commoditization of older technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards can exert pricing pressure on existing products and/or render them unmarketable or obsolete. It is critical to our success that we are able to anticipate and respond to changes in technology and industry standards by consistently developing new and enhanced, innovative and high-quality products and services that meet or exceed the changing needs of our customers. We must also successfully launch and drive demand for our new and enhanced solutions. If we are unable to develop, launch, and drive demand for our new and enhanced solutions, we may lose market share and our profitability and other results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our solutions may contain defects that could impair their market acceptance and may result in customer claims for substantial damages if they fail to perform properly. Our existing solutions are and future solutions are expected to be sophisticated and may develop operational problems. New products and new product versions also give rise to the risk of defects or errors. If we are not able to remedy or do not discover such defects, errors, or other operational problems until after a product has been released and used by customers or partners, we may incur significant costs to correct such defects, errors, or other operational problems and/or become liable for substantial damages for product liability claims or other contract liabilities. In addition, defects or errors in our products may result in questions regarding the integrity of the products generally, which could cause adverse publicity and impair their market acceptance. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with third parties that market and sell our products, our business and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. Approximately half of our sales are made through partners, distributors, resellers, and systems integrators. We must often compete with other suppliers for these relationships and our competitors often seek to establish exclusive relationships with these sales channels or, at a minimum, to become a preferred partner for them. Our ability to procure and maintain these relationships is based on factors that are similar to those on which we compete for end customers, including features, functionality, ease of use, installation and maintenance, and price, among others. Even if we are able to secure such relationships on terms we find acceptable, there is no assurance that we will be able to realize the benefits we anticipate. Some of our channel partners may also compete with us or have affiliates that compete with us or may partner with our competitors or even offer our products and those of our competitors as alternatives when presenting bids to end customers. Our ability to achieve our revenue goals and growth depends to a significant extent on maintaining and adding to these sales channels, and if we are unable to do so, our business and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. The sophisticated nature of our solutions, sales cycle, and sales strategy may create uncertainty in our operating results and make such results more volatile and difficult to predict. Although the timing of our sales cycle ranges from as little as a few weeks to more than a year, our larger sales, which we emphasize in our sales strategy, typically require a minimum of a few months to consummate. As the length or complexity of a sales process increases, so does the risk of successfully closing the sale. Larger sales are often made by competitive bid, which also increases the time and uncertainty associated with such opportunities. Moreover, because many of our solutions are also sophisticated, customers may require education on the value and functionality of our solutions as part of the sales process, further extending the time frame and uncertainty of the process. Longer sales cycles, competitive bid processes, and the need to educate customers means that: 22 Table of Contents · There is greater risk of customers deferring, scaling back, or cancelling sales as a result of, among other things, receipt of competitive proposals, changes in budgets and purchasing priorities, or introduction or anticipated introduction of new or enhanced products by us or our competitors, during the process. · We may make a significant investment of time and money in opportunities that do not come to fruition, which investments we may be unable to recoup or utilize in future projects. · We may be required to bid on a project in advance of the completion of its design or required to begin implementation of a project in advance of finalizing a sale, in either case, increasing the risk of unforeseen technological difficulties or cost overruns. · We face greater downside risks if we do not correctly and efficiently deploy limited human and financial resources and convert such sales opportunities into orders. The extended timeframe and uncertainty associated with many of our sales opportunities also makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenues (and attendant budgeting and guidance decisions) and increases the volatility of our operating results from period to period. Our ability to forecast and the volatility of our operating results is also impacted by the fact that pricing, margins, and other deal terms may vary substantially from transaction to transaction, especially across business lines. The terms of our transactions, including with respect to pricing, future deliverables, delivery model (e.g., perpetual license versus SaaS), and post-contract customer support, also impact the timing of our ability to recognize revenue. Because these transaction-specific factors are difficult to predict in advance, this also complicates the forecasting of revenue. Additionally, because, as noted above, we emphasize larger transactions in our sales strategy, the deferral or loss of one or more significant orders or a delay in a large implementation could materially adversely affect our operating results, especially in any given quarter. As with other software-focused companies, a large amount of our quarterly business tends to come in the last few weeks, or even the last few days, of each quarter. This trend has also complicated the process of accurately predicting revenue and other operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. Finally, our business is subject to seasonal factors that may also cause our results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For certain products and components, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, manufacturers, and partners and if these relationships are interrupted we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers, manufacturers, or partners on favorable terms or at all. Although we generally use standard parts and components in our products, we do rely on non-affiliated suppliers and OEM partners for certain non-standard products or components which may be critical to our products, including both hardware and software, and on manufacturers of assemblies that are incorporated into our products. We also purchase technology, license intellectual property rights, and oversee third-party development and localization of certain products or components, in some cases, from companies that may compete with us or work with our competitors. While we endeavor to use larger, more established suppliers, manufacturers, and partners wherever possible, in some cases, these providers may be smaller, more early-stage companies, particularly with respect to 23 Table of Contents suppliers of new or unique technologies that we have not developed internally. If these suppliers, manufacturers, or partners experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity, or quality assurance difficulties, or cease production and sale of the products we buy from them entirely, or there is any other disruption, including loss of license, OEM, or distribution rights, in our relationships with these suppliers, manufacturers, or partners, including as a result of the acquisition of a supplier or partner by a competitor, we will be required to locate alternative sources of supply or manufacturing, to internally develop the applicable technologies, to redesign our products, and/or to remove certain features from our products, any of which would be likely to increase expenses, create delivery delays, and negatively impact our sales. Although we endeavor to put in place contracts with these key providers, including protections such as source code escrows (where needed), warranties, and indemnities, we may not be successful in obtaining adequate protections, these agreements may be short-term in duration, the counterparties may be unwilling or unable to stand behind such protections, and any contractual protections offer limited practical benefits to us in the event our relationship with a key provider is interrupted, any of which may adversely affect our business. If we cannot recruit or retain qualified personnel, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. In addition, in order to continue to grow effectively, we need to attract and retain new employees who understand and have experience with our products, services, and industry. The market for such personnel is competitive in most, if not all, of the geographies in which we operate. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, on reasonable economic and other terms or at all, our ability to operate and grow our business could be impaired. Because we have significant foreign operations, we are subject to geopolitical and other risks that could materially adversely affect our business. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including sales, research and development, manufacturing, customer support, and administrative services. The countries in which we have our most significant foreign operations include Israel, the United Kingdom, Canada, India, Germany, and China (Hong Kong), and we intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. We believe our business may suffer if we are unable to successfully expand into new regions, as well as maintain and expand existing foreign operations. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign expansion will be, subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including risks associated with: · foreign currency fluctuations; · political, security, and economic instability in foreign countries; · changes in and compliance with local laws and regulations, including export control laws, tax laws, labor laws, employee benefits, customs requirements, currency restrictions, and other requirements; · differences in tax regimes and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in foreign countries; 24 Table of Contents · customizing products for foreign countries; · preference for or policies and procedures that protect local suppliers; · legal uncertainties regarding liability and intellectual property rights; · hiring and retaining qualified foreign employees; and · difficulty in, and longer timeframes associated with, accounts receivable collection. Any or all of these factors could materially affect our business or results of operations. Conditions in and our relationship to Israel may materially adversely affect our operations and personnel and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or engage in certain transactions. We have significant operations in Israel, including research and development, manufacturing, sales, and support. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighbors, which in the past have led, and may in the future lead, to security and economic problems for Israel. In addition, Israel has faced and continues to face difficult relations with the Palestinians and the risk of terrorist violence from both Palestinian as well as foreign elements such as Hezbollah. Infighting among the Palestinians may also create security and economic risks to Israel. Current and future conflicts and political, economic, and/or military conditions in Israel and the Middle East region have affected and may in the future affect our operations in Israel. The exacerbation of violence within Israel or the outbreak of violent conflicts between Israel and its neighbors, including Iran, may impede our ability to manufacture, sell, and support our products, engage in research and development, or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. In addition, many of our employees in Israel are required to perform annual compulsory military service and are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. The absence of these employees may have an adverse effect on our operations. Hostilities involving Israel may also result in the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Restrictive laws, policies, or practices in certain countries directed toward Israel, Israeli goods, or companies having operations in Israel may also limit our ability to sell some of our products in certain countries. We receive grants from the OCS for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. The availability in any given year of these OCS grants depends on OCS approval of the projects and related budgets that we submit to the OCS each 25 Table of Contents year. The Israeli law under which these OCS grants are made limits our ability to manufacture products, or transfer technologies, developed using these grants outside of Israel. This may limit our ability to engage in certain outsourcing or business combination transactions involving these products or require us to pay significant royalties or fees to the OCS in order to obtain any OCS consent that may be required in connection with such transactions. We are subject to complex, evolving regulatory requirements that may be difficult and expensive to comply with and that could negatively impact our business. Our business and operations are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements in the United States and abroad, including, among other things, with respect to labor, tax, import and export, anti-corruption, data privacy and protection, and communications monitoring and interception. Compliance with these regulatory requirements may be onerous and expensive, especially where these requirements are inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction or where the jurisdictional reach of certain requirements is not clearly defined or seeks to reach across national borders. Regulatory requirements in one jurisdiction may make it difficult or impossible to do business in another jurisdiction. We may also be unsuccessful in obtaining permits, licenses, or other authorizations required to operate our business, such as for the import or export of our products. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations, we also cannot assure you that we or our personnel will not violate applicable laws and regulations or our policies regarding the same. Regulatory requirements, such as laws requiring telecommunications providers to facilitate the monitoring of communications by law enforcement, may also influence market demand for many of our products and/or customer requirements for specific functionality and performance or technical standards. The domestic and international regulatory environment is subject to constant change, often based on factors beyond our control or anticipation, including political climate, budgets, and current events, which could reduce demand for our products or require us to change or redesign products to maintain compliance or competitiveness. We are dependent on contracts with governments around the world for a significant portion of our revenue. These contracts also expose us to additional business risks and compliance obligations. For the year ended January 31, 2012, approximately one quarter of our business was generated from contracts with various governments around the world, including federal, state, and local government agencies. We expect that government contracts will continue to be a significant source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our business generated from government contracts may be materially adversely affected if: · our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired; · we are suspended or otherwise prohibited from contracting with a domestic or foreign government or any significant law enforcement agency, for example, as a result of our previously disclosed March 2010 consent judgment with the SEC, which must be disclosed by us in any proposal to perform new work for U.S. federal agencies until March 2013; 26 Table of Contents · levels of government expenditures and authorizations for law enforcement and security related programs decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide products and services; · we are prevented from entering into new government contracts or extending existing government contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations, including those related to procurement; · we are not granted security clearances that are required to sell our products to domestic or foreign governments or such security clearances are deactivated; · there is a change in government procurement procedures; or · there is a change in political climate that adversely affects our existing or prospective relationships. In addition, we must comply with domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with government agencies in various countries and may impose added costs on our business or defer our ability to recognize revenue from such contracts. Our government contracts may contain, or under applicable law may be deemed to contain, unfavorable provisions not typically found in private commercial contracts that may expose us to additional risk or liability, including provisions enabling the government party to: · terminate or cancel existing contracts for convenience without reimbursing us for incurred costs or hold us liable for cover costs if the contract was terminated for cause; · in the case of the U.S. federal government, suspend us from doing business with a foreign government or prevent us from selling our products in certain countries; · audit and object to our contract-related costs and expenses, including allocated indirect costs; and · unilaterally change contract terms and conditions, including warranty provisions, schedule, quantities, and scope of work, in advance of our agreement on corresponding pricing adjustments. Loss of security clearances or political factors may adversely affect our business. Some of our subsidiaries maintain security clearances domestically and abroad in connection with the development, marketing, sale, and support of our Communications Intelligence solutions. These clearances are reviewed from time to time by these countries and could be deactivated for political reasons unrelated to the merits of our solutions, such as the list of countries we do business with or the fact that our local entity is controlled by or affiliated with an entity based in another country. If we lose our security clearances in a particular country, we would be unable to sell our Communications Intelligence solutions for secure projects in that 27 Table of Contents country on a direct basis and might also experience greater challenges in selling such solutions even for non-secure projects in that country. Even if we are able to obtain and maintain applicable security clearances, government customers may decline to purchase our Communications Intelligence solutions if they were not developed or manufactured in that country or if they were developed or manufactured in other countries that are considered disfavored by such country. We may also experience negative publicity or other adverse impacts on our business if we sell our Communications Intelligence solutions to countries that are considered disfavored by the media or political or social rights organizations even though such transactions may be permissible under applicable law. If any of the foregoing events occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Intellectual Property and Data/Systems Security Our intellectual property may not be adequately protected. While much of our intellectual property is protected by patents or patent applications, we have not and cannot protect all of our intellectual property with patents or other registrations. There can be no assurance that patents we have applied for will be issued on the basis of our patent applications or that, if such patents are issued, they will be sufficiently broad enough to protect our technologies, products, or services. There can be no assurance that we will file new patent, trademark, or copyright applications, that any future applications will be approved, that any existing or future patents, trademarks or copyrights will adequately protect our intellectual property or that any existing or future patents, trademarks, or copyrights will not be challenged by third parties. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, designed around, or challenged. In order to safeguard our unpatented proprietary know-how, source code, trade secrets, and technology, we rely primarily upon trade secret protection and non-disclosure provisions in agreements with employees and other third parties having access to our confidential information. There can be no assurance that these measures will adequately protect us from improper disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is difficult even in jurisdictions with well-established legal protections for intellectual property such as the United States. It may be even more difficult to protect our intellectual property in other jurisdictions where legal protections for intellectual property rights are less well-established. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property against unauthorized third-party use or infringement, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could lead to costly disputes or disruptions for us and may require us to indemnify our customers and resellers for any damages they suffer. The technology industry is characterized by frequent allegations of intellectual property infringement. In the past, third parties have asserted that certain of our products infringed upon their intellectual property rights and similar claims may be made in the future. Any 28 Table of Contents allegation of infringement against us could be time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve, result in substantial diversion of management resources, cause product shipment delays, or force us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If patent holders or other holders of intellectual property initiate legal proceedings against us, either with respect to our own intellectual property or intellectual property we license from third parties, we may be forced into protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of these claims. We may not be successful in defending such litigation, in part due to the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation, and may not be able to procure any required royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. Subject to certain limitations, we generally indemnify our customers and resellers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties, which, in some cases, may not be limited to a specified maximum amount and for which we may not have insurance coverage or an adequate indemnification in the case of intellectual property licensed from a third party. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages, be required to obtain licenses for the products our customers or partners use, or incur significant expenses in developing non-infringing alternatives. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using or, in the case of resellers and other partners, stop selling our products. Use of free or open source software could expose our products to unintended restrictions and could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our products contain free or open source software (together, open source software) and we anticipate making use of open source software in the future. Open source software is generally covered by license agreements that permit the user to use, copy, modify, and distribute the software without cost, provided that the users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source software generally provide no warranties on such software or protections in the event the open source software infringes a third party’s intellectual property rights. Although we endeavor to monitor the use of open source software in our product development, we cannot assure you that past, present, or future products will not contain open source software elements that impose unfavorable licensing restrictions or other requirements on our products, including the need to seek licenses from third parties, to re-engineer affected products, to discontinue sales of affected products, or to release all or portions of the source code of affected products. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our business. The mishandling or even the perception of mishandling of sensitive information could harm our business. Our products are in some cases used by customers to compile and analyze highly sensitive or confidential information and data, including, in some cases, information or data used in intelligence gathering or law enforcement activities. While our customers’ use of our products in no way affords us access to the customer’s sensitive or confidential information or data, we or our partners may receive or come into contact with such information or data, including personally identifiable information, when we are asked to perform services or support functions for our customers. We or our partners may also receive or come into contact with such 29 Table of Contents information in connection with our SaaS or other hosted or managed services offerings. We have implemented policies and procedures and use information technology systems to help ensure the proper handling of such information and data, including background screening of certain services personnel, non-disclosure agreements with employees and partners, access rules, and controls on our information technology systems. Customers are also increasingly focused on the security of our products and we work to ensure their security, including through the use of encryption, access rights, and other customary security features. However, these measures are designed to mitigate the risks associated with handling or processing sensitive data and cannot safeguard against all risks at all times. The improper handling of sensitive data, or even the perception of such mishandling (whether or not valid), or other security lapses by us or our partners or within our products, could reduce demand for our products or otherwise expose us to financial or reputational harm or legal liability. We may be subject to information technology system failures or disruptions that could harm our operations, financial condition, or reputation. We rely extensively on information technology systems to operate and manage our business and to process, maintain, and safeguard information, including information belonging to our customers, partners, and personnel. These systems may be subject to failures or disruptions as a result of, among other things, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, new system implementations, acts of terrorism or war, physical security breaches, computer viruses, or other cyber security attacks. We have experienced cyber security attacks in the past and may experience them in the future, potentially with greater frequency. While we are continually working to maintain secure and reliable systems, our security, redundancy, and business continuity efforts may be ineffective or inadequate. Such system failures or disruptions could subject us to research and development or production downtimes, delays in our ability to process orders, delays in our ability to provide products and services to customers, delays or errors in financial reporting, compromise or loss of sensitive or confidential information or intellectual property, destruction or corruption of data, financial losses from remedial actions, liabilities to customers or other third parties, or damage to our reputation. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Structure Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent misstatements and material weaknesses or deficiencies could arise in the future which could lead to restatements or filing delays. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect every misstatement. As previously disclosed, our management has in the past concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at prior fiscal year ends as a result of material weaknesses. 30 Table of Contents An evaluation of effectiveness is subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, because the degree of compliance with policies or procedures decreases over time, or because of unanticipated circumstances or other factors. As a result, although our management has concluded that our internal controls are effective as of January 31, 2012, we cannot assure you that our internal controls will prevent or detect every misstatement, that material weaknesses or other deficiencies will not reoccur or be identified in the future, that this or future financial reports will not contain material misstatements or omissions, that future restatements will not be required, or that we will be able to timely comply with our reporting obligations in the future. We may be unable to timely implement new accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, which could lead to future restatements or filing delays. Relevant accounting rules and pronouncements are subject to ongoing interpretation by the accounting profession and refinement by various organizations responsible for promulgating and interpreting accounting principles. These ongoing interpretations or the adoption of new rules and pronouncements could require material changes in our accounting practices or financial reporting, including restatements, which may be expensive, time consuming, and difficult to implement. We cannot assure you that, if such changes are required, that we will be able to timely implement them or will not experience future reporting delays. Our stockholders do not have the same protections generally available to stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies because we are currently a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. Because Comverse holds a majority of the voting power for the election of our board of directors, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615(c). As a controlled company, we qualify for, and our board of directors, the composition of which is controlled by Comverse, may and intends to rely upon, exemptions from several of NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: · a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; · compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and · director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. At present, we do not have a majority independent board of directors or a compensation committee or a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders are not and will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies for so long as Comverse controls the composition of our board and our board determines to rely upon such exemptions. 31 Table of Contents Comverse can control our business and affairs, including our board of directors. Because Comverse beneficially owns a majority of our common stock (assuming conversion of our preferred stock) and holds a majority of the voting power for the election of our board of directors, Comverse effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted for stockholder action, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as certain equity issuances or mergers and acquisitions. The terms of our preferred stock, all of which is held by Comverse, entitle Comverse to further control over significant corporate transactions. As of January 31, 2012, the preferred stock was convertible into approximately 10.8 million shares of our common stock, giving Comverse beneficial ownership of 54.4% of our common stock assuming conversion of such preferred stock. In addition, as of January 31, 2012, Comverse’s preferred stock and common stock positions collectively entitled it to 52.7% of the voting power for the election of our board of directors and for any other matters submitted to a vote of our common stockholders (assuming no conversion of the preferred stock). By virtue of its controlling stake, Comverse also has the ability, acting alone, to remove existing directors and/or to elect new directors to our board of directors to fill vacancies. At present, Comverse has appointed individuals who are officers, executives, or directors of Comverse as five of our nine directors. These directors have fiduciary duties to both us and Comverse and may become subject to conflicts of interest on certain matters where Comverse’s interest as majority stockholder may not be aligned with the interests of our minority stockholders. In addition, if we fail to repurchase the preferred stock as required upon a fundamental change, then the number of directors constituting the board of directors will be increased by two and Comverse will have the right to elect two directors to fill such vacancies. As a consequence of Comverse’s control over the composition of our board of directors, Comverse can also exert a controlling influence on our management, direction and policies, including the ability to appoint and remove our officers, engage in certain corporate transactions, including debt financings and mergers or acquisitions, or, subject to the terms of our credit agreement, declare and pay dividends. We have been adversely affected as a result of being a consolidated, controlled subsidiary of Comverse and could be adversely affected in the future. We have been adversely affected by events at Comverse in the past and may be adversely affected by events at Comverse in the future. Comverse’s previous extended filing delay and the circumstances underlying it materially and adversely affected us in a number of ways, including by contributing to our own previous extended filing delay and related concerns on the part of employees, customers, partners, service providers, and regulatory authorities, among others. If Comverse were in the future to experience further filing delays or to discover further accounting issues, it could have an adverse impact on us and our business. For as long as we remain a majority owned subsidiary of Comverse, Comverse’s strategic plans, and related speculation and announcements regarding its ownership interest in our stock, may also adversely affect us and our business. For example, Comverse 32 Table of Contents has publicly announced its intention to spin off its Comverse, Inc. subsidiary and eliminate its holding company structure either simultaneously with or shortly after the completion of such transaction and we cannot presently predict the outcome of this Comverse process or its impact on us. Prior to our IPO in May 2002, we were included in Comverse’s U.S. federal income tax return and we remain party to a tax-sharing agreement with Comverse for periods prior to our IPO. As a result, Comverse may unilaterally make decisions that could impact our liability for income taxes for periods prior to the IPO. Under applicable federal and state laws, we could also be liable, under certain circumstances, for taxes of other members of the Comverse consolidated group for such pre-IPO periods. Adjustments to the consolidated group’s tax liability for periods prior to our IPO could also affect the net operating losses (“NOLs”) allocated to us by Comverse and cause us to incur additional tax liability in future periods. We have a significant amount of debt under our credit agreement, which exposes us to leverage risks and subjects us to covenants which may adversely affect our operations. At January 31, 2012, we had gross outstanding indebtedness of $597.0 million under our credit agreement, meaning that we are significantly leveraged. Our leverage position may, among other things: · limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; · require us to repatriate cash for debt service from our foreign subsidiaries resulting in dividend tax costs or require us to adopt other disadvantageous tax structures to accommodate debt service payments; or · increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, and restrict our flexibility to react to changes in market or industry conditions. In addition, because our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates in periods where market rates exceed the interest rate floor provided by our credit agreement. Our credit agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a covenant requiring us to deliver audited financial statements to the lenders each year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7 for additional information. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to comply with the leverage ratio covenant is highly dependent upon our ability to continue to grow earnings from quarter to quarter, or in the alternative, to reduce expenses and/or reduce the level of our outstanding debt and we cannot assure that we will be successful in any or all of these regards. Our credit agreement also includes a number of restrictive covenants which limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness or liens or issue preferred stock; · pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock or subordinated indebtedness; · engage in transactions with affiliates; · engage in sale-leaseback transactions; · sell certain assets; · change our lines of business; · make investments, loans, or advances; and · engage in consolidations, mergers, liquidations, or dissolutions. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, to meet our capital needs, or to otherwise engage in transactions that might be considered beneficial to us. If an event of default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. In that event, we may be forced to seek an amendment of and/or waiver under the credit agreement, raise additional capital through securities offerings, asset sales, or other transactions, or seek to refinance or restructure our debt. In such a case, there can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate such an amendment and/or waiver, capital raising transaction, refinancing, or restructuring on reasonable terms or at all. We consider other financing and refinancing options from time to time, however, we cannot assure you that such options will always be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. If one or more rating agencies were to downgrade our credit ratings, that could also impede our ability to refinance our existing debt or secure new debt, increase our future cost of borrowing, and create third party concerns about our financial condition or results of operations. 34 Table of Contents The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of the preferred stock. In connection with our 2007 acquisition of Witness Systems, Inc. (“Witness”), we issued 293,000 shares of convertible preferred stock to Comverse at an aggregate purchase price of $293.0 million. The issuance of shares of common stock upon conversion of the preferred stock would result in substantial dilution to the other common stockholders. As of January 31, 2012, inclusive of accrued dividends, the preferred stock was convertible into approximately 10.8 million shares of our common stock. In addition, the terms of the preferred stock include liquidation, dividend, and other rights that are senior to and more favorable than the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. As part of our growth strategy, we have made a number of acquisitions and investments and expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments in the future, subject to the terms of our credit agreement and other restrictions resulting from our capital structure. In recent periods, the market for acquisitions has become more competitive and valuations have increased. Several of our competitors have also completed acquisitions of companies in or adjacent to our markets in recent periods. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to identify suitable acquisition targets or to consummate acquisitions once identified on reasonable terms or at all. If we are not able to execute on our acquisition strategy, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy, may lose market share, or may lose our leadership position in one or more of our markets. Future acquisitions or investments, if any, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, investments in immature businesses with unproven track records and technologies have a high degree of risk, with the possibility that we may lose the value of our entire investments and potentially incur additional unexpected liabilities. Acquisitions or investments that are not immediately accretive to earnings may also make it more difficult for us to maintain satisfactory profitability levels and compliance with the maximum leverage ratio covenant under our credit agreement. The process of integrating an acquired company’s business into our operations and investing in new technologies is challenging and may result in expected or unexpected operating or compliance challenges, which may require a significant amount of our management’s attention that would otherwise be focused on the ongoing operation of our business, as well as significant expenditures. Other risks we may encounter with acquisitions include the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic positions and our reputation, the inability to obtain the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including synergies or economies of scale on a timely basis or at all, or challenges in reconciling business practices, particularly in foreign geographies, combining systems, retaining key employees, and maintaining and integrating product development. Due to rapidly changing market conditions, we may also find the value of our acquired technologies and related intangible assets, such as goodwill, as recorded in our financial statements, to be impaired, resulting in charges to operations. 35 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making additional acquisitions or that we will be able to effectively integrate any acquisitions we do make or realize the expected benefits of such transactions. Our future success depends on our ability to execute on our growth strategy and properly manage investment in our business and operations. Our strategy is to continue to invest in our business and operations and grow, both organically and through acquisitions. Investments in, among other things, new products and technologies, research and development, infrastructure and systems, geographic expansion, and headcount are critical to achieving our growth strategy and the need to continually enhance and secure our internal and external operations. However, such investments may not be successful, and even if successful, may negatively impact our short-term profitability. Our success depends on our ability to effectively and efficiently execute on our growth strategy, including our ability to properly allocate limited investment dollars, balance the extent and timing of investments with the associated impact on expenses and profitability, and capture economies of scale. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently execute on our growth strategy and properly manage our investments and expenditures, our results of operations and stock price may be materially adversely affected. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets have represented a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $1.0 billion, or approximately 68% of our total assets, as of January 31, 2012. We test our goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if an event occurs indicating the potential for impairment, and we assess on an as-needed basis whether there have been impairments in our other intangible assets. We make assumptions and estimates in this assessment which are complex and often subjective. These assumptions and estimates can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy or our internal forecasts. To the extent that the factors described above change, we could be required to record additional non-cash impairment charges in the future. Any significant impairment charges would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations subject us to currency exchange risk. Most of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our operating expenses, primarily labor expenses, is denominated in the local currencies where our foreign operations are located, principally Israel, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Canada. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could increase the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in these countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, since a portion of our sales are made in foreign currencies, primarily the euro and the British pound, fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could impact our revenue (on a U.S. dollar 36 Table of Contents basis) and materially adversely affect our results of operations. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense, however, our hedging activities are limited in scope and duration and may not be effective at reducing the U.S. dollar cost of our global operations. Changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, inability to realize value from our NOLs, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our future results. We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation allowance on deferred tax assets (including our NOL carryforwards), changes in unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States, may from time to time review the pricing arrangements between us and our foreign subsidiaries. An adverse determination by one or more tax authorities in this regard may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In Israel, we continue to work towards becoming compliant with our statutory accounting and tax filings as a result of our prior financial restatement. If we are delayed further in our Israeli filings, we could be subject to certain penalties, including imposition of withholding taxes and inability to contract with Israeli government entities. We have significant deferred tax assets which can provide us with significant future cash tax savings if we are able to use them. However, the extent to which we will be able to use these tax benefits may be impacted, restricted, or eliminated by a number of factors including whether we generate sufficient future net income, adjustments to Comverse’s tax liability for periods prior to our IPO, changes in tax rates, laws, or regulations that could have retroactive effect, or an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. If an ownership change were to occur, it would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change NOLs and other losses available to reduce our taxable income and could result in a reduction in the value of our NOL carryforwards or the realizability of other deferred tax assets. To the extent that we are unable to utilize our NOLs or other losses, our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition could be adversely affected in a significant manner. When we cease to have NOLs available to us in a particular tax jurisdiction, either through their expiration, disallowance, or utilization, our cash tax liability will increase in that jurisdiction. Our stock price has been volatile and your investment could lose value. All of the risk factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, including with respect to Comverse’s strategic plans, announcements relating to Comverse’s strategic plans, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes 37 Table of Contents in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. Stock sales by Comverse or our directors, officers, or other significant holders may also affect our stock price. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 