Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other written reports and oral statements we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “target” or the negative of these terms or other comparable terms. However, the absence of these words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made by the Company in light of its experience and its perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors it believes are appropriate in the circumstances. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may cause actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to a material difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and the risks discussed in the Company’s other filings with the Commission. All forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report are qualified by these cautionary statements and there can be no assurance that the actual results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that they will have the expected consequence to or effects on the Company or its business or operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements set forth in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or the occurrence of unanticipated events. Economic recessions and other factors that reduce freight volumes could have a material adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks that may have a material impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals, and which may include the following: • A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace reduces our opportunities for growth. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. • Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, causing our working capital needs to increase. • A significant number of our transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers. • We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing 12 Table of Contents market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. In addition, we have other primarily variable expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. We operate in a highly competitive industry and, if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs, our business could suffer. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our profitability, including the following: • competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, more fully developed information technology systems and greater capital resources than we do; • reduction by our competitors of their rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business; • shift in the business of shippers to asset-based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies’ trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry-wide capacity; • solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple transportation providers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors; and • establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs. We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy. We intend to expand substantially through acquisitions to take advantage of market opportunities we perceive in both our current markets (freight brokerage, expedited transportation, and freight forwarding) and in new markets that we may enter. However, we may experience delays in making acquisitions or be unable to make the acquisitions we desire for a number of reasons. Suitable acquisition candidates may not be available at purchase prices that are attractive to us or on terms that are acceptable to us. In pursuing acquisition opportunities, we will compete with other companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may not have available funds or common stock with a sufficient market price to complete a desired acquisition. If we are unable to secure sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete acquisitions that we otherwise find advantageous. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may cause volatility in our financial results. We are unable to predict the size, timing and number of acquisitions we may complete. In addition, we may incur expenses associated with sourcing, evaluating and negotiating acquisitions (including those that are not completed), and we also may pay fees and expenses associated with obtaining financing for acquisitions and with investment banks and others finding acquisitions for us. Any of these amounts may be substantial, and together with the size, timing and number of acquisitions we pursue, may negatively impact and cause significant volatility in our financial results and stock price. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows; 13 Table of Contents • assumption of liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; • inability to negotiate effective indemnification protection from the seller, or inability to collect in the event of an indemnity claim; • problems integrating the purchased operations with our own, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; • potential compliance issues with regard to acquired companies that did not have adequate internal controls; • diversion of management’s attention or other resources from our existing business; • risks associated with entering markets, such as rail intermodal, air freight forwarding and ocean cargo, in which we have limited prior experience; • increases in working capital investment to fund the growth of acquired operations; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company; and • future write-offs of intangible and other assets if the acquired operations fail to generate sufficient cash flows. In connection with future acquisitions, we may issue shares of capital stock that dilute other stockholders’ holdings, incur debt, assume significant liabilities or create additional expenses related to intangible assets, any of which might reduce our profitability and cause our stock price to decline. We may not successfully manage our growth. We intend to grow rapidly and substantially, including by expanding our internal resources, making acquisitions and entering into new markets. We may experience difficulties and higher-than-expected expenses in executing this strategy as a result of unfamiliarity with new markets, change in revenue and business models and entering into new geographic areas. Our growth will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We will need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our working capital needs will increase substantially as our operations grow. Failure to manage growth effectively, or obtain necessary working capital, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, stock price and financial condition. We incurred substantial operating losses and net losses in the 2012 fiscal year and it is likely that we will continue to incur losses as we continue to invest in the Company to promote growth. We incurred substantial losses in the 2012 fiscal year and we expect to continue to incur substantial losses as we invest pursuant to our strategies. Our growth strategy, in part, seeks to grow our business through the opening of cold-start locations in our Freight Brokerage segment. Generally, a newly opened sales office will generate an operating loss, and may have lower margin sales, during its start-up phase. Additionally, our business strategy requires that we develop an information technology platform across the Company, with sales, service, carrier and track-and-trace capabilities, as well as benchmarking and analysis. We are investing in technology systems and corporate infrastructure that are scalable for our intended growth and are designed to support larger operations than we currently have. As a result of these and other initiatives, we do not expect that our gross margin derived from our operations will be sufficient to absorb all of our SG&A expenses until we are able to generate significantly greater revenue. Our ability to generate significant revenues and operate profitably will depend on many factors, including the successful implementation of our acquisition and greenfield growth strategies and our new information technology system. 14 Table of Contents Our business will be seriously harmed if we fail to develop, implement, maintain, upgrade, enhance, protect and integrate information technology systems. We rely heavily on our information technology system to efficiently run our business and it is a key component of our growth strategy. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our proprietary technology platform in response to these trends, which may lead to significant ongoing software development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of our customers and the trends in the transportation services industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenues. Despite testing, external and internal risks, such as malware, insecure coding, “Acts of God,” attempts to penetrate our network, data leakage and human error, pose a direct threat to our information technology systems and operations. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors could result in loss of revenues or market share, liability to customers or others, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Correction of such errors could prove to be impossible or very costly and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. We must maintain and enhance the reliability and speed of our information technology systems to remain competitive and effectively handle higher volumes of freight through our network. If our information technology systems are unable to manage additional volume for our operations as our business grows, our service levels and operating efficiency could decline. We expect customers to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their transportation providers. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel to implement, protect and maintain our information technology systems or if we fail to upgrade our systems to meet our customers’ demands, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. This could result in a loss of customers and a decline in the volume of freight we receive from customers. We license an operating system that we are developing into an integrated information technology system for all of our business segments. This new system may not be successful or may not achieve the desired results. We may require additional training or different personnel to successfully implement this system, all of which may result in additional expense, delays in obtaining results or disruptions to our operations. In addition, acquired companies will need to be on-boarded, which may cause additional training or licensing cost and disruption. In such event, our revenue, financial results and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales representatives and independent station agents, or if a significant number of our existing sales representatives and independent station agents leaves us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain sales representatives and independent station agents. Competition for qualified sales representatives and brokerage agents can be intense. We may be unable to attract such persons or retain those that are already associated with us. Any difficulties we experience in expanding or retaining our sales representatives and independent station agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our customer base, increase our revenue and continue our growth. Further, a significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives and independent station agents could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency. Our success is dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel. Our success depends on the continuing services of our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bradley S. Jacobs. We believe that Mr. Jacobs possesses valuable knowledge and skills that are crucial to our success and would be very difficult to replicate. 15 Table of Contents Our senior management team was assembled in 2011 and early 2012 under the guidance of Mr. Jacobs. The team was assembled with a view towards substantial growth, and the size and aggregate compensation of the team increased substantially. The associated significant increase in overhead expense could decrease our margins if we fail to grow substantially. Not all of our senior management team resides near or works at our headquarters. The geographic distance of the members of our senior management team may impede the team’s ability to work together effectively. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and their ability to work together. We cannot assure you that they will be able to do so. Over time, our success will depend on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be able to retain our management team or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management would require our remaining senior officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling the duties of the departing executive and to seeking a replacement. The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely impact our results of operations and prospects. We depend on third parties in the operation of our business. In our Freight Forwarding and Freight Brokerage operations, we do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our customers’ freight, and we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. In our Expedited Transportation operations, we engage independent contractors who own and operate their own equipment. Accordingly, we are dependent on third parties to provide truck, rail, ocean, air, and other transportation services and to report certain events to us, including delivery information and cargo claims. This reliance could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing revenue and claims. Our inability to maintain positive relationships with independent transportation providers could significantly limit our ability to serve our customers on competitive terms. If we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers or provide our services on competitive terms, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including the following: • equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted truckload carriers; • interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; and • changes in transportation rates. In our freight forwarding operations, we rely upon both independent station owners and our employees to develop and manage customer relationships and to service the customers. Our Freight Forwarding operations are provided through a network of independent stations that are owned and operated by independent contractors and through stations managed by our employees. These independent station owners and company employees develop and manage customer relationships, have discretion in establishing pricing, and service the customers through the various modes of transportation made available through our network of third-party transportation providers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our relationships with these independent station owners or develop in the future relationships with additional independent station owners. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain or effectively motivate our key employees who manage our most significant customer relationships. Since these independent station owners and our employees maintain the relationships with the customers, some customers may decide to terminate their relationship with us if their independent station owner or contact leaves our network. Accordingly, our inability to maintain relationships with these independent station owners and our employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In addition, since these independent station owners are independent contractors, we have limited control over their operations and the quality of service that they provide to customers. To the extent that an independent station owner provides poor customer service or otherwise does not meet a customer’s expectations, or we encounter a similar situation with our employees, this will reflect poorly on us, and the customer may not use us in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our largest customers, some of which are involved in the highly cyclical automotive industry; our relationships with our customers generally are terminable on short notice and generally do not provide minimum shipping commitments. While individual customer rankings within our top customers change from time to time, we rely upon our relationships with these large accounts in the aggregate for a significant portion of our revenues. Any interruption or decrease in the business volume awarded by these customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and resulting profitability. Our most significant customers include certain of the large automotive manufacturers, as well as various automotive industry suppliers. These companies have been, and will continue to be, impacted by the changing landscape in the U.S. automotive market, which is highly competitive and historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variation characterized by periods of oversupply and weak demand. Negative trends in the U.S. automotive market or a worsening in the financial condition of automotive manufacturers, or within the associated supplier base, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and resulting profitability. Our contractual relationships with our customers generally are terminable by our customers or us on short notice for any reason or no reason. Moreover, our customers generally are not required to provide any minimum shipping commitments. Our failure to retain our existing customers or enter into relationships with new customers could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and resulting profitability. Higher purchased transportation expenses may result in decreased net revenue margin. Transportation providers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant, or to cover higher operating expenses. Factors such as increases in freight demand, decreases in trucking capacity, higher driver wages, increased regulation, and increases in the prices of fuel, insurance, tractors, trailers, and other operating expenses can result in higher purchased transportation expenses to us. Our profitability may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers to cover higher expenses, or we may be forced to refuse certain business, which could affect our customer relationships. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel may change our operations structure and resulting profitability. Fuel expense constitutes one of the greatest costs to our fleet of independent contractor drivers and third-party transportation providers who complete the physical movement of freight we arrange. Fuel prices are highly volatile with the price and availability of all petroleum products subject to economic, political and other market forces beyond our control. As is customary in our industry, most of our customer contracts include fuel surcharge provisions to mitigate the effect of the fuel price increase over base amounts established in the contract. However, these fuel surcharge mechanisms usually do not capture the entire amount of the increase in fuel prices, and they also feature a lag between the payment for the fuel at the pump and collection of the surcharge revenue. Market pressures may limit our ability in the future to assess fuel surcharges. Significant increases in fuel prices would increase our need for working capital to fund payments to our independent contractor drivers and third-party transportation providers. Significant changes in the price or availability of fuel in future periods or significant changes in our ability to mitigate fuel price increases through the use of fuel surcharges, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, fleet capacity and ability to generate both revenues and profits. 17 Table of Contents Increases in independent contractor driver compensation or other difficulties attracting and retaining qualified independent contractor drivers could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain or grow our independent contractor driver fleet. Our Expedited Transportation segment operates through a fleet of exclusive-use vehicles that are owned and operated by independent contractors. These independent contractor drivers are responsible for maintaining their own equipment and paying their own fuel, insurance, licenses and other operating costs. Independent contractor drivers make up a relatively small portion of the pool of all professional drivers in the United States. Turnover and bankruptcy among independent contractor drivers often limit the pool of qualified independent contractor drivers and increase competition for their services. In addition, regulations such as CSA may further reduce the pool of qualified independent contractor drivers. Thus, our continued reliance on independent contractor drivers could limit our ability to grow our ground transportation fleet. From time to time we experience, and we are currently experiencing, difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified independent contractor drivers, and such shortages may recur in the future. Additionally, our agreements with independent contractor drivers are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified independent contractor drivers to replace those who have left our fleet. If we are unable to retain our existing independent contractor drivers or recruit new independent contractor drivers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The compensation we offer our independent contractor drivers is subject to market conditions and we may find it necessary to continue to increase independent contractor drivers’ compensation in future periods, which may be more likely to the extent economic conditions continue to improve. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of independent contractor drivers, we could be required to adjust our mileage rates and accessorial pay or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain our size or grow. A determination by regulators or courts that our independent contractor drivers are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislative and other regulatory authorities have in the past sought to assert that independent contractor drivers in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. Many states have initiated enforcement programs to increase their revenues from items such as unemployment, workers’ compensation and income taxes and a reclassification of independent contractor drivers as employees would help states with these initiatives. Further, class actions and other lawsuits have arisen in our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers’ compensation, wage-and-hour, and health care coverage. Proposed legislation would make it easier for tax and other authorities to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees. If our independent contractor drivers are determined to be our employees, we would incur additional exposure under federal, state and local tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor and employment laws, including for prior periods, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the ongoing viability of our business model. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment (including wage-and-hour litigation relating to independent contractor drivers, sales representatives, brokerage agents and other individuals), personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. During 2012, we spent approximately $2.5 million dollars in litigation-related legal costs. Any material litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 18 Table of Contents We are involved in litigation in the Fourth Judicial District Court of Hennepin County, Minnesota relating to our hiring of former employees of C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“CHR”). In the litigation, CHR asserts claims for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty and duty of loyalty, tortious interference with contractual relationships and prospective contractual relationships, misappropriation of trade secrets, violation of the federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, inducing, aiding, and abetting breaches, and conspiracy. CHR seeks temporary, preliminary and permanent injunctions, as well as direct and consequential damages and attorneys’ fees. CHR has asserted that it may seek punitive damages as well. On January 17, 2013, following a hearing, the Court issued an Order Regarding Motion for Temporary Injunction. The Court granted a temporary injunction against us: (a) prohibiting us from using or disclosing information on CHR spreadsheets retained by two individual employees; (b) ordering us to return any information derived from those spreadsheets; (c) prohibiting any former CHR employees at XPO still under the terms of their non-compete agreements from soliciting current CHR employees; (d) prohibiting us from soliciting information about CHR employees from any XPO employee who is still subject to a CHR non-solicitation agreement; and (e) prohibiting us from engaging in business with customers identified on a CHR spreadsheet with whom CHR did more than $100,000 worth of gross revenue in 2011 (“Paragraph 1(e)” of the Order). On January 22, 2013, following our request, the Court issued an Order Staying Imposition of Paragraph 1(e) pending the Court’s determination of our request for leave to submit a motion for reconsideration. On February 7, 2013, CHR filed a First Amended Complaint against us and eight individual defendants who are current or former employees of XPO, including our Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President – Strategic Accounts and Vice President – Carrier Procurement and Operations. We have until March 21, 2013 to answer or otherwise respond to the First Amended Complaint. We intend to vigorously defend the action in court. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to varying liability standards that may result in claims being asserted against us. With respect to our Expedited Transportation and Freight Forwarding operations, we have primary liability to the shipper for cargo loss and damage for certain liabilities caused by our independent contractor drivers. From time to time, our independent contractor drivers, and the drivers engaged by the transportation providers we contract with, are involved in accidents that may result in serious personal injuries or property damage. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded by or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted transportation provider. In our Freight Brokerage operations, we generally are not liable for damage to our customers’ cargo or in connection with damages arising in connection with the provision of transportation services. However, in our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo and other liability, including liability for the actions of transportation providers to which we broker freight and their employees or independent contractor drivers, or for our actions in retaining them. While we endeavor to limit this exposure to matters arising due to our negligence or misconduct, or to cap our exposure at a stated maximum dollar amount, we are not always able to do so. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. We are subject to regulation beyond our control, which could negatively impact our business. Our operations are regulated and licensed by various federal and state transportation agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. These regulatory agencies have authority and oversight of domestic and international transportation services and related activities, licensure, motor carrier operations, safety and security, and other matters. We must comply with various insurance and surety bond requirements to act in the capacities for which we are licensed. Our subsidiaries and independent contractors must also comply with applicable regulations and requirements of such agencies. The “Regulation” section in Item 1 of Part I of this Form 10-K describes the various licenses obtained by us, Express-1, CGL and XPO Air Charter, as well as proposed, pending and adopted regulations that could significantly affect our business, operations, productivity, independent contractors and capital expenditures. 19 Table of Contents Through our subsidiaries and business units, we hold various licenses required to carry out our domestic and international services. These licenses permit us to provide services as a motor carrier, property broker, indirect air carrier, OTI, NVOCC, freight forwarder and ocean freight forwarder. We also are subject to regulations and requirements promulgated by, among others, the DOT and FMCSA, the DHS through the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the TSA, the FMC, IATA, the Canada Border Services Agency and various other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to maintain our required licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services or require us to incur significant additional costs. We are unable to predict the impact that recently enacted and future regulations may have on our businesses. Higher costs incurred by us, or incurred by our independent contractors or third party transportation providers who pass the increased costs on to us, as a result of future new regulations could adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we are unable to obtain a corresponding increase in price from our customers. Seasonality affects our operations and profitability. The transportation industry experiences seasonal fluctuations. Our results of operations are typically lower for the first quarter of the calendar year relative to our other quarters. We believe this is due in part to the post-holiday reduction in demand experienced by many of our customers, which leads to more capacity in the non-expedited and service-critical markets and, in turn, less demand for expedited and premium shipping services. In addition, the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers generally decreases during the winter season because inclement weather impedes operations. Terrorist attacks, anti-terrorism measures and war could have broad detrimental effects on our business operations. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our independent contractors and transportation providers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Congress has mandated 100% security screening of air cargo traveling on passenger airlines effective July 31, 2010, and for ocean freight by July 2012, which may increase costs associated with our air and freight forwarding operations. War, risk of war, or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise substantial additional capital when needed could prevent us from achieving our growth objectives. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. 20 Table of Contents Our outstanding preferred stock, convertible senior notes and any future credit agreement limit our operating and financial flexibility. We are obligated to pay holders of our Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock quarterly cash dividends equal to the greater of (i) the “as-converted” dividends on the underlying common stock for the relevant quarter, if applicable, and (ii) 4% of the then-applicable liquidation preference per annum. Presently, the aggregate dividends due to holders of our preferred stock are $3.0 million each year. Our preferred stock has an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, for an aggregate liquidation preference of $74.3 million, subject to adjustment in the event of accrued and unpaid dividends. Accordingly, holders of our preferred stock have claim to a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations and liquidity, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, our growth initiatives and other general corporate purposes. We are obligated to pay holders of our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes interest semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on April 1, 2013. The notes will mature on October 1, 2017 unless earlier converted or repurchased. The conversion rate was initially 60.8467 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $16.43 per share of common stock) and is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Any future credit agreement may contain certain operating and financial restrictive covenants. Such covenants may limit management’s discretion in operating our business and may affect our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments, acquisitions and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. Failure to comply with the covenants under any future credit agreement may have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, if we fail to comply with the covenants under any future credit agreement, and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under the applicable credit agreement. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings if such borrowings were accelerated upon an event of default. Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will fund future acquisitions or our capital requirements from time to time, in whole or part, through sales or issuances of our common stock or equity-based securities, subject to prevailing market conditions and our financing needs. Future equity financing may dilute the interests of our stockholders, and future sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There are securities outstanding presently that are convertible into or exercisable for a substantial number of shares of our common stock. As of March 11, 2013, there were (i) 18,147,182 million shares of our common stock outstanding, (ii) 74,275 shares of Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock outstanding, which are initially convertible into an aggregate of 10,610,715 shares of our common stock (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), (iii) warrants exercisable at any time until September 2, 2021, for an aggregate of 10,714,286 shares of our common stock, at an initial exercise price of $7.00 per share of common stock (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments), (iv) 2,409,889 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options or settlement of restricted stock units and (v) 8,749,239 shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid, and have no immediate plans to pay, cash dividends on our common stock. We currently plan to retain future earnings and cash flows for use in the development of our business and to enhance 21 Table of Contents stockholder value through growth and continued focus on increasing profitability rather than pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls a large portion of our stock and has substantial control over us, which could limit other stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bradley S. Jacobs, is the managing member of Jacobs Private Equity, LLC (“JPE”), our largest stockholder, and beneficially owns: (i) 67,500 shares of our Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock held by JPE, which are initially convertible into an aggregate of 9,642,857 shares of our common stock, (ii) warrants held by JPE that are initially exercisable for an aggregate of 9,642,857 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.00 per share, (iii) 28,140 shares of our common stock that are held directly by Mr. Jacobs and (iv) vested employee stock options exercisable for 50,000 shares of our common stock. In total, Mr. Jacobs beneficially owns 19,363,854 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock assuming conversion and exercise of his Series A Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, warrants and vested stock options (without reflecting any shares issuable upon conversion of our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2017). This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Our preferred stock votes together with our common stock on an “as-converted” basis on all matters, except as otherwise required by law, and separately as a class with respect to certain matters implicating the rights of holders of shares of the preferred stock. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Agreement, dated as of June 13, 2011 (the “Investment Agreement”), by and among JPE, the other investors party thereto and us, Mr. Jacobs, as the managing member of JPE, will have the right to designate for nomination by our board of directors a majority of the members of our board of directors so long as JPE owns securities (including preferred stock convertible into, or warrants exercisable for, securities) representing at least 33% of the voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis, and will have the right to designate for nomination by our board of directors 25% of the members of our board of directors so long as JPE owns securities (including preferred stock convertible into, or warrants exercisable for, securities) representing at least 20% of the voting power of our capital stock on a fully-diluted basis. Accordingly, Mr. Jacobs can exert significant influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership and the related contractual rights may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. Because Mr. Jacobs controls a majority of the voting power of our stock, we qualify as a “controlled company” as defined in the NYSE Listed Company Manual, and, as such, we may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of such stock exchange. We do not currently intend to utilize these exemptions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 