Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Labor Costs and Collective Bargaining Agreements (Continued) Our collective bargaining agreement with the Air Line Pilots Association, the union representing Pinnacle’s pilots, became amendable on April 30, 2005. In September 2009, the pilots voted against the ratification of a tentative agreement to amend the collective bargaining agreement. While our future negotiations with ALPA will be conducted under the oversight of the National Mediation Board, as a result of their vote against the tentative agreement, we are unable to predict when an agreement could be reached. Consequently, we remain at risk of a strike by our pilots should the National Mediation Board release our pilots from the negotiations and should we fail to obtain an agreement with ALPA before the parties are legally entitled to self help under the Railway Labor Act. M. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. We compete against the other major and regional U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics and other employee groups essential for providing airlines services. Several of the other airlines offer wage and benefit packages that exceed ours. We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified employees or risk considerable turnover, which could negatively affect our ability to provide a quality product to our customers and therefore negatively affect our relationship with our customers. Similarly, as we further expand our Q400 operations for Continental, our need for qualified pilots, mechanics and other airline-specific employees increases. For example, Pinnacle’s ongoing negotiation with ALPA for an amended collective bargaining agreement may complicate our ability to both attract and retain pilots, one of our key employee groups. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified pilots we would be unable to efficiently run our operations and our competitive ability would be impaired. Our business could be harmed and revenue reduced if, due to a shortage of pilots, we are forced to cancel flights and forego earning incentive-based revenue under our code-share agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. All staff comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission were resolved as of the date of this filing. 21 