Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Operations (Continued) L. We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result. We are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to emissions in the air. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. There is increasing regulatory focus in North America on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. While we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs will be in the United States or in other areas in which we do business, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results. Risks Related to our Labor Costs and Collective Bargaining Agreements M. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, may directly affect our earnings. Labor costs are not directly reimbursed by any of our code-share partners. Rather, compensation for these costs is intended to be covered by the payments based on pre-set rates for block hours, departures, and fixed costs. Labor costs constitute a significant portion, ranging from 31% to 33%, of our total operating costs. Pressure to increase these costs beyond standard industry wages, and therefore beyond the limits intended to be covered by the fixed payments we receive from our code-share partners, is increased by the high degree of unionization of our workforce. As of December 31, 2010, 73% of our employees were unionized. Additionally, on February 17, 2011, we entered into a new agreement with ALPA, the union representing pilots at Pinnacle, Mesaba, and Colgan. The joint agreement represents an amendment to the collective bargaining agreements at Pinnacle and Mesaba, and a first agreement with Colgan’s pilots. The terms of the agreement will materially increase our pilots’ salaries, wages, and benefits costs. The agreement contains increased pay rates for pilots at Pinnacle and Colgan, as well as a material signing bonus for Pinnacle’s pilots. An increase in our labor costs over standard industry wages could result in a material reduction to our earnings, and could affect our future prospects for additional business opportunities. N. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could result in the termination, or a significant reduction of the benefit, of our code-share agreements. If we are unable to reach collective bargaining agreements upon their initial or amendable dates with any of our unionized work groups in accordance with the Railway Labor Act, we may be subject to work interruptions, work stoppages, or a fleet size reduction. Work stoppages may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements. Several of our code-share agreements contain provisions granting our partners the right to terminate our agreements in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. Additionally, our CRJ-200 ASA contains a provision allowing Delta to reduce the size of our CRJ-200 fleet in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. O. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. We compete against the other major and regional U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics, and other employee groups essential for providing airlines services. Several of the other airlines offer wage and benefit packages that exceed ours. We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified employees or risk considerable turnover, which could negatively affect our ability to provide a quality product to our customers and therefore negatively affect our relationship with our customers. Similarly, as we further expand our Q400 operations for United, our need increases for qualified pilots, mechanics, and other airline-specific employees. If we are unable to hire, train, and retain qualified pilots we would be unable to efficiently run our operations and our competitive ability would be impaired. Our business could be harmed and revenue reduced if, due to a shortage of pilots, we are forced to cancel flights and forego earning incentive-based revenue under our code-share agreements. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments All staff comments received from the SEC were resolved as of the date of this filing. 