Item 1A. Risk Factors screened for explosives. Funding for airline and airport security under the law is provided in part by a passenger security fee of $2.50 per U.S. enplanement (up to $10.00 per round trip); however, airlines are responsible for costs in excess of this fee, and on February 18, 2002, the TSA imposed an air carrier security fee directly on airlines. Continued implementation of the requirements of the Aviation Security Act and related regulations will result in increased costs for our passengers and us. In addition to increased costs, the security measures that the TSA has implemented have resulted in a longer check-in process for passengers and have caused delays and disruptions in airline service, which have led to customer frustration and reduced demand for air travel. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. If adopted, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs, which could result in Northwest scheduling fewer flights for our company. These and other laws or regulations enacted in the future may harm our business. Aviation insurance is a critical safeguard of our financial condition. It might become difficult to obtain adequate insurance at a reasonable rate in the future. We believe that our insurance policies are of types customary in the industry and in amounts we believe are adequate to protect us against material loss. It is possible, however, that the amount of insurance we carry will not be sufficient to protect us from material loss. Some aviation insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage, which would result in our failing to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by the ASA, our other contractual agreements or applicable government regulations. Additionally, war risk coverage or other insurance might cease to be available to our vendors or might only be available for reduced amounts of coverage. We may be affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, increased security measures and U.S. and world conditions and events. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as aircraft congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions and increased security measures. During periods of fog, storms or other adverse weather conditions or air traffic control problems, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. To the extent that we reduce the number of our flights for these reasons, our revenues, and hence our profits, will be reduced. For example, in December 2004, our operations were significantly affected when adverse weather conditions closed or reduced operations at over 60% of the airports we serve. As a result, we were unable to meet certain operation performance levels under our ASA and were required to pay related fees, reducing our fourth quarter 2004 earnings. Likewise, we experienced an unusually large number of winter storms across our system in January and February 2005. Due primarily to these January and February events, the percentage of regularly scheduled flights that we completed for the six months ended June 30, 2005 was below the performance standards included in the ASA. As a result, we incurred approximately $1.0 million in performance penalties for the six months ended June 30, 2005. We believe that other material risks and uncertainties that could affect us, and could affect whether Northwest provides us with additional aircraft or utilizes our fleet, include the future level of air travel demand, our future load factors and yields, the airline pricing environment, increased costs for security, the price and availability of jet fuel, the possibility of additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, concerns about communicable disease outbreaks, labor negotiations both at other carriers and our company, capacity decisions of other carriers, the general economic condition of the U.S. and other regions of the world, armed conflicts and civil disturbances, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, inflation and other factors. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 