Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Industry The charter markets for crude oil carriers and product tankers have deteriorated significantly since the summer 2008, which could affect our future revenues, earnings and profitability. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index declined from a high of 2,347 in July 2008 to a low of 453 in mid-April 2009, which represents a decline of 80%. The Baltic Clean Tanker Index has fallen over 1,160 points, or 77%, since the early summer of 2008. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the significant fall in demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the consequent rising inventories of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States and in other industrialized nations and the corresponding reduction in oil refining, the dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2008, and the restrictions on crude oil production that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other non-OPEC oil producing countries have imposed in an effort to stabilize the price of oil. 4 Table of Contents We currently employ eight vessels in the spot market with existing charters scheduled to expire over the next 47 days, by which time, we will have to negotiate new employment for the remaining six vessels in the currently depressed charter market. In addition, 15 of our vessels are employed on time charters that expire between April and November of this year, four of our vessels are under contracts of affreightment which provide for periodic adjustments of their charter rates, based upon prevailing market rates and four newbuildings are scheduled to be delivered in the second half of 2009 and early 2010 for which we do not now have charters. If the current low rates in the charter market continue for any significant period in 2009 it will affect the charter revenue we will receive from these vessels, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The decline in charter rates also affects the value of our vessels, which follows the trends of charter rates and earnings on our charters. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a further material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have sought and received significant government assistance or have been put under the control of regulatory authorities. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking, commodities and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares on the New York Stock Exchange to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. The tanker industry is highly dependent upon the crude oil and petroleum products industries. The employment of our vessels is driven by the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the availability of modern tanker capacity and the scrapping, conversion or loss of older vessels. Historically, the world oil and petroleum markets have been volatile and cyclical as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the supply, price, production and transport of oil, including: • increases and decreases in the demand for crude oil and petroleum products; • availability of crude oil and petroleum products; • demand for crude oil and petroleum product substitutes, such as natural gas, coal, hydroelectric power and other alternate sources of energy that may, among other things, be affected by environmental regulation; • actions taken by OPEC and major oil producers and refiners; • global and regional political and economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • international trade sanctions; • environmental factors; • weather; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The turbulence the world economies are encountering has resulted in a fall in demand for crude oil and oil products which in turn has resulted in a decrease in freight rates and values. In addition, industry observers are 5 Table of Contents forecasting that 2009 will witness the second consecutive decline in worldwide demand for oil and oil products. If the production of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products continues to decline in the future, a corresponding decrease in shipments of these products could have an adverse impact on the employment of our vessels and the charter rates that they command. In particular, the charter rates that we earn from our spot charters and contracts of affreightment and time-charters with profit-share may decline. In addition, overbuilding of tankers has, in the past, led to a decline in charter rates. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. The resulting decline in revenues could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Charter hire rates are cyclical and volatile. The crude oil and petroleum products shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. After reaching highs in mid-2008, charter hire rates for oil product carriers fell significantly in the fall, improved in December, but fell again during the winter and early spring of 2009. Because we charter some of our vessels pursuant to spot market voyage charters, the charter rates for four of our vessels adjust periodically and the time charters for 15 of our vessels will expire over the next several months, we will be exposed to changes in the charter rates which could affect our earnings and the value of our vessels at any given time. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. The global tanker industry is highly competitive. We operate our fleet in a highly competitive market. Our competitors include owners of VLCCs, suezmax, aframax, panamax, handymax and handysize tankers. These competitors include other independent tanker companies, as well as national and independent oil companies, some of whom have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. Competition in the tanker industry is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the available tankers and their operators to potential charterers. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Throughout 2008 and into 2009, the frequency of piracy has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the west coast of Africa. For example, in November 2008, the MV Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not owned by us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. Recently, a tanker managed by Tsakos Shipping & Trading (“Tsakos Shipping”) was fired upon by pirates off the coast of Nigeria, although it successfully repelled their attack. If piracy attacks result in regions (in which our vessels are deployed) being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect our business. An attack like that of September 11, 2001 or longer-lasting wars or international hostilities, including those currently in Afghanistan and Iraq could damage the world economy and adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and negatively affect our investment and our customers’ investment decisions over an extended period of time. We conduct our vessel operations internationally and despite undertaking various security measures, our vessels may become subject to terrorist acts and other acts of hostility like piracy, either at port or at sea. Such actions could adversely impact our overall business, financial condition and operations. In addition, our financial viability may also be negatively affected by changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. 6 Table of Contents Taking advantage of attractive opportunities in pursuit of our growth strategy may result in financial or commercial difficulties. Despite the current economic crisis, a key strategy of management is to continue to further renew and grow our fleet by pursuing the acquisition of additional vessels or fleets or tanker companies that are complementary to our existing operations, assuming we have the financial resources and debt capacity to do so. We share the view commonly held by financial advisers to our Company that the crisis may present opportunities in the coming months to acquire new vessels or tanker companies or contracts to construct new vessels or even to undertake new construction contracts at prices more favorable than those seen in the recent past. If we seek to expand through such acquisitions of other tanker or companies, we face numerous challenges, including: • difficulties in raising all the required capital; • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of potentially unknown material liabilities or contingent liabilities of acquired companies; • competition from other potential acquirers, some of which have greater financial resources; and • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate successfully the operations, personnel, services or vessels that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are subject to extensive international, national and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. In addition, major oil companies chartering our vessels impose, from time to time, their own environmental and health and safety requirements. We have incurred significant expenses in order to comply with these regulations and requirements, including the costs of ship modifications and changes in operating procedures, additional maintenance and inspection requirements, contingency arrangements for potential spills, insurance coverage and full implementation of the new security-on-vessels requirements which came into effect on July 1, 2004. In particular, certain international, national and local laws and regulations require, among other things, double hull construction for new tankers, as well as the retrofitting or phasing-out of single hull tankers based on each vessel’s date of build, gross tonnage (a unit of measurement for the total enclosed spaces within a vessel) and/or hull configuration. We have sold all our vessels which were not double hull, except for the Vergina II which has been converted to a double hull vessel. All of the newbuildings we have contracted to purchase are double-hulled. However, because environmental regulations may become stricter, future regulations may limit our ability to do business, increase our operating costs and/or force the early retirement of our vessels, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. International, national and local laws imposing liability for oil spills are also becoming increasingly stringent. Some impose joint, several, and in some cases, unlimited liability on owners, operators and charterers regardless of fault. We could be held liable as an owner, operator or charterer under these laws. In addition, under certain circumstances, we could also be held accountable under these laws for the acts or omissions of Tsakos Shipping or Tsakos Energy Management, companies that provide technical and commercial management services for our vessels and us, or others in the management or operation of our vessels. Although we currently maintain, and plan to continue to maintain, for each of our vessels pollution liability coverage in the amount of $1 billion per incident (the maximum amount available), liability for a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage we have available, and result in our having to liquidate assets to pay claims. In addition, we may be required to contribute to funds established by regulatory authorities for the compensation of oil pollution damage or provide financial assurances for oil spill liability to regulatory authorities. Maritime disasters and other operational risks may adversely impact our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of ocean-going vessels has an inherent risk of maritime disaster, environmental mishaps, cargo and property losses or damage and business interruptions caused by, among others: • mechanical failure; 7 Table of Contents • human error; • labor strikes; • adverse weather conditions; • vessel off hire periods; • regulatory delays; and • political action, civil conflicts, terrorism and piracy in countries where vessel operations are conducted, vessels are registered or from which spare parts and provisions are sourced and purchased. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations, result in loss of revenues or increased costs and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to perform our charters. Terrorist acts and regional hostilities around the world in recent years have led to increases in our insurance premium rates and the implementation of special “war risk” premiums for certain trading routes. More recent natural disasters, such as the hurricanes striking the United States, have led to yet further increases. Such increases in insurance rates adversely affect our profitability. Our vessels could be arrested at the request of third parties. Under general maritime law in many jurisdictions, crew members, tort claimants, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services and other claimants may lien a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through court process. In some jurisdictions, under the extended sister ship theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s maritime lien has arisen, but also any associated vessel under common ownership or control. While in some jurisdictions which have adopted this doctrine, liability for damages is limited in scope and would only extend to a company and its shipowning subsidiaries, we cannot assure you that liability for damages caused by some other vessel determined to be under common ownership or control with our vessels would not be asserted against us. Our vessels may be requisitioned by governments without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Risks Related To Our Business Charters at attractive rates may not be available when our current time charters expire or when we negotiate employment for our four newbuildings. In 2008, we derived approximately 64% of our revenues from time charters, as compared to 62% in 2007. As the current period charters of 15 our vessels expire, it may not be possible to re-charter these vessels on a period basis at attractive rates given the current depressed state of the charter market. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into time charters at attractive rates for the four newbuildings that will be delivered to us in the second half of 2009 and in the first half of 2010. If attractive period charter opportunities are not available, we would seek to charter our vessels on the spot market. Charter rates in the spot market are currently low and are subject to significant fluctuations, and tankers traded in the spot market may experience substantial off-hire time. In the event a vessel may not find employment at economically viable rates, management may opt to lay up the vessel until such time that rates become attractive again. During the period of lay up, the vessel will continue to incur expenditures such as insurance, reduced crew wages and maintenance costs. If our exposure to the spot market or contracts of affreightment increases, our revenues could suffer and our expenses could increase. The spot market for crude oil and petroleum product tankers is highly competitive. As a result of any increased reliance on the spot market, we may experience a lower utilization of our fleet, leading to a decline in operating revenue. Moreover, to the extent our vessels are employed in the spot market, both our revenue from 8 Table of Contents vessels and our operating costs, specifically, our voyage expenses will be more significantly impacted by increases in the cost of bunkers (fuel). Unlike time charters in which the charterer bears all of the bunker costs, in spot market voyages we bear the bunker charges as part of our voyage costs. As a result, while historical increases in bunker charges are factored into the prospective freight rates for spot market voyages periodically announced by WorldScale Association (London) Limited and similar organizations, increases in bunker charges in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations for the period in which the increase occurs. In addition, to the extent we employ our vessels pursuant to contracts of affreightment or under pooling arrangements, the rates that we earn from the charterers under those contracts may be subject to reduction based on market conditions, which could lead to a decline in our operating revenue. We depend on Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping to manage our business. We do not have the employee infrastructure to manage our operations and have no physical assets except our vessels and the newbuildings that we have under contract. We have engaged Tsakos Energy Management to perform all of our executive functions. Tsakos Energy Management directly provides us with financial, accounting and other back-office services, including acting as our liaison with the New York Stock Exchange and the Bermuda Stock Exchange. Tsakos Energy Management, in turn, oversees and subcontracts commercial management, day-to-day fleet technical management, such as crewing, chartering and vessel purchase and sale functions, to Tsakos Shipping, one of the world’s largest independent tanker managers. As a result, we depend upon the continued services of Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Energy Management depends on the continued services of Tsakos Shipping. We derive significant benefits from our relationship with the Tsakos Group, including purchasing discounts to which we otherwise would not have access. We would be materially adversely affected if either Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping becomes unable or unwilling to continue providing services for our benefit at the level of quality they have provided such services in the past and at comparable costs as they have charged in the past. If we were required to employ a ship management company other than Tsakos Energy Management, we cannot offer any assurances that the terms of such management agreements and results of operations would be more beneficial to the Company in the long term. Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. The ability of Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair their financial strength and, because both of these companies are privately held, it is unlikely that information about their financial strength would become public unless these companies began to default on their obligations. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Tsakos Energy Management has the right to terminate its management agreement with us and Tsakos Shipping has the right to terminate its contract with Tsakos Energy Management. Tsakos Energy Management may terminate its management agreement with us at any time upon one year’s notice. In addition, if even one director were to be elected to our board without having been recommended by our existing board, Tsakos Energy Management would have the right to terminate the management agreement on 10 days’ notice. If Tsakos Energy Management terminates the agreement for this reason, we would be obligated to pay Tsakos Energy Management the present discounted value of all payments that would have otherwise become due under the management agreement until June 30 in the tenth year following the date of the termination plus the average of the incentive awards previously paid to Tsakos Energy Management multiplied by ten. A termination as of December 31, 2008 would have resulted in a payment of approximately $126 million. Tsakos Energy Management’s contract with Tsakos Shipping may be terminated by either party upon six months’ notice and would terminate automatically upon termination of our management agreement with Tsakos Energy Management. Our ability to pursue legal remedies against Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping is very limited. In the event Tsakos Energy Management breached its management agreement with us, we could bring a lawsuit against Tsakos Energy Management. However, because we are not ourselves party to a contract with Tsakos 9 Table of Contents Shipping, it may be impossible for us to sue Tsakos Shipping for breach of its obligations under its contract with Tsakos Energy Management, and Tsakos Energy Management may have no incentive to sue Tsakos Shipping. Tsakos Energy Management is a company with no substantial assets and no income other than the income it derives under our management agreement. Therefore, it is unlikely that we would be able to obtain any meaningful recovery if we were to sue Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping on contractual grounds. Tsakos Shipping manages other tankers and could experience conflicts of interests in performing obligations owed to us and the operators of the other tankers. In addition to the vessels that it manages for us, Tsakos Shipping manages three other VLCC tankers, two double-hull and one single-hull, that operate under long term charters, plus two other tankers aged over twenty years and three newly-delivered panamax tankers. These vessels are operated by the same group of Tsakos Shipping employees that manage our vessels, and Tsakos Shipping has advised us that its employees manage these vessels on an “ownership neutral” basis; that is, without regard to who owns them. Due to their age and design, the older tankers that are managed by Tsakos Shipping primarily serve a different market than the market served by our vessels, however, it is possible that Tsakos Shipping might allocate charter or spot opportunities to other Tsakos Shipping vessels when our vessels are unemployed, or could allocate more lucrative opportunities to its other vessels. It is also possible that Tsakos Shipping could in the future agree to manage more tankers that directly compete with us. Clients of Tsakos Shipping have acquired and may acquire further vessels that may compete with our fleet. Tsakos Shipping has given us a right of first refusal on any opportunity to purchase a tanker which is 10 years of age or younger or contract to construct a tanker that is referred to or developed by Tsakos Shipping. Were we to decline any opportunity offered to us, or if we do not have the resources or desire to accept it, other clients of Tsakos Shipping might decide to accept the opportunity. In this context, Tsakos Shipping clients have recently taken delivery of three modern panamax tankers with a fourth for delivery in May 2009. Two of the delivered vessels now operate in a pool which could be in competition with our fleet and the third has been chartered to a common client on the same terms as our vessels chartered to the same client. These charters and future charters of tankers by Tsakos Shipping could result in conflicts of interest between their own interests and their obligations to us. Our chief executive officer has affiliations with Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping which could create conflicts of interest. Nikolas Tsakos is the president, chief executive officer and a director of our company and the director and sole shareholder of Tsakos Energy Management. Nikolas Tsakos is also the son of the founder of Tsakos Shipping. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest that could result in our losing revenue or business opportunities or increase our expenses. Our commercial arrangements with Tsakos Energy Management and Argosy may not always remain on a competitive basis. We pay Tsakos Energy Management a management fee for its services pursuant to our management agreement. We also place our hull and machinery insurance, increased value insurance and loss of hire insurance through Argosy Insurance Company, Bermuda, a captive insurance company affiliated with Tsakos Shipping. We believe that the management fees that we pay Tsakos Energy Management compare favorably with management compensation and related costs reported by other publicly traded shipping companies and that our arrangements with Argosy are structured at arms-length market rates. Our board reviews publicly available data periodically in order to confirm this. However, we cannot assure you that the fees charged to us are or will continue to be as favorable to us as those we could negotiate with third parties and our board could determine to continue transacting business with Tsakos Energy Management and Argosy even if less expensive alternatives were available from third parties. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success depends particularly on the continued service of Nikolas Tsakos, our president and chief executive officer and the sole shareholder of Tsakos Energy Management. The loss of Mr. Tsakos’s services or the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. 10 Table of Contents Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels which may adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of tankers may increase or decrease depending on any of the following: • general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry; • supply and demand balance for ships within the tanker industry; • competition from other shipping companies; • types and sizes of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; • prevailing level of charter rates; and • technological advances. The global economic recession that commenced in 2008 will likely result in a decrease in vessel values. In addition, although we currently own a modern fleet, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. We have a policy of considering the disposal of tankers periodically and in particular after they reach 20 years of age. If we sell tankers at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying value on our financial statements, with the result that we will incur a loss. In addition, accounting pronouncements require that we periodically review long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss for an asset held for use should be recognized when the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. Measurement of the impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset as provided by third parties. In this respect, management regularly reviews the carrying amount of our vessels in connection with the estimated recoverable amount for each vessel. Such reviews may from time to time result in asset write-downs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. No such impairment loss has been incurred since 2002. If Tsakos Shipping is unable to attract and retain skilled crew members, our reputation and ability to operate safely and efficiently may be harmed. Our continued success depends in significant part on the continued services of the officers and seamen whom Tsakos Shipping provides to crew our vessels. The market for qualified, experienced officers and seamen is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as a result of the growth in world economies and other employment opportunities. Although Tsakos Shipping has a contract with a manning agency and sponsors various marine academies in the Philippines, Greece and the Ukraine and has a manning office in Odessa, Ukraine, we cannot assure you that Tsakos Shipping will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain properly skilled personnel at commercially reasonable salaries. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate cost-effectively and our ability to increase the size of our fleet. Labor interruptions could disrupt our operations. Substantially all of the seafarers and land based employees of Tsakos Shipping are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. In addition, some of our vessels operate under flags of convenience and may be vulnerable to unionization efforts by the International Transport Federation and other similar seafarer organizations which could be disruptive to our operations. Any labor interruption or unionization effort which is disruptive to our operations could harm our financial performance. The contracts to purchase our newbuildings present certain economic and other risks. We currently have contracts to construct four newbuildings that are scheduled for delivery during 2009 and 2010. If available, we may also order additional newbuildings. During the course of construction of a vessel, we are typically required to make progress payments. While we have refund guarantees from banks to cover defaults by the shipyards and our construction contracts would be saleable in the event of our payment default, we can still incur economic losses in the event that we or the shipyards are unable to perform our respective obligations. Shipyards periodically experience financial difficulties. 11 Table of Contents Credit conditions internationally might impact our ability to raise debt financing We have traditionally financed our vessel acquisitions with cash (equity) and bank debt from various reputable national and international commercial banks. In relation to newbuilding contracts, the equity portion covers all or part of the pre-delivery obligations while the debt portion covers the outstanding amount due to the ship yard on delivery. To date, we have not secured bank financing for our remaining obligations to the ship yards, although negotiations are in progress. Terms and conditions, however, could be different from terms obtained in the past and could result in higher cost of capital. In addition revised covenants might be imposed that might limit our flexibility in terms of dividend payments and other operational matters and materially affect our ability to raise additional debt from the market. In addition, we cannot guarantee the financial state of the banks we deal with nor their short or long term viability as going-concerns. Any adverse development in that respect could materially alter our current and future financial planning and growth and have a potentially negative impact on our balance sheet. We may not be able to finance all of the vessels we currently have on order. We have not finalized financing arrangements to satisfy the balance of the purchase price due, approximately $109 million, for the four aframax vessels that we have on order (two for delivery in the second half of 2009 and two for delivery in the first half of 2010). We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing for these newbuildings on terms that are favorable to us or at all. If we were unable to finance further installments for the newbuildings we have on order, an alternative would be to attempt to sell the uncompleted vessels to a buyer who would assume the remainder of the contractual obligations. The amount we would receive from the buyer would depend on market circumstances and could result in a deficit over the advances we had paid to the date of sale plus capitalized costs. Alternatively, we may default on the contract, in which case the builder would sell the vessel and refund our advances less any amounts the builder would deduct to cover all of its own costs. We would be obliged to cover any deficiency arising in such circumstances. Apart from the delay in receiving the refund of advances and the possible payment of any deficiencies, the direct effect on our operations of not acquiring the vessel would be to forego any revenues and related vessel operating cash flows. We may sell one or more of our newbuildings. While we intend to take delivery of and operate all four newbuildings we currently have on order, attractive opportunities may arise to sell one or more of these vessels while they are under construction or after they are delivered. Our board of directors will review any such opportunity and may conclude that the sale of one or more vessels would be in our best interests. If we sell a vessel, we would receive the proceeds from the sale, repay any indebtedness we had incurred relating to such newbuilding and we would no longer be responsible for further installments under the relevant newbuilding contract. We would, however, forego any revenues and operating cash flows associated with such newbuilding. The profitability of our LNG vessel is subject to market volatility. The LNG market is still in its infancy and could fail to develop into a mature state for profitable LNG shipping investments. In such market scenarios, we could fail to dispose of our LNG carrier. If we decide to exit this sector, for whatever reason, we might have to sell the vessel at a price below its cost and subsequently suffer an economic loss or might be forced to operate the vessel at unprofitable or breakeven levels. The vessel is currently on charter until June 2010, with options for a further two years. If the charter market is weak on the expiry of the charter we might not be able to secure new employment or be obliged to accept charters for rates materially below those originally factored into our investment evaluation. The effectiveness of attaining accretive charters for the LNG carrier would be determined by the reliability and experience of third-party technical managers. We have subcontracted all technical management aspects of our LNG operation to Hyundai Merchant Marine for a fee. Neither Tsakos Energy Management nor Tsakos Shipping has the dedicated personnel for running LNG operations nor can we guarantee that they will employ an adequate number of employees in the future. As such, we are totally dependent on the reliability and effectiveness of third-party managers for whom we can not guarantee that their employees, both onshore and at-sea are adequate in their assigned role. We can not guarantee the quality of their services or the longevity of the management contract. 12 Table of Contents Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our tankers. We seek to employ our tankers on time charters, contracts of affreightment, tanker pools and in the spot market in a manner that will optimize our earnings. As of December 31, 2008, 38 of our tankers were contractually committed to period employment (including contract of affreightment) with remaining terms ranging from one month to five years. Although these period charters provide steady streams of revenue, our tankers committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot voyages may be more profitable. If we cannot re-charter these vessels on long-term period charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. Fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. While we do not bear the cost of fuel or bunkers, under time and bareboat charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under spot charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability of our business. Our significant investment in ice-class vessels might not prove successful. We have made significant investments in building a solid presence in the ice-class tanker market through both building and acquiring ice strengthened vessels. This type of vessel commonly commands a premium to build and/or acquire to compensate for the ice-class features of the hull and engine. The versatility of these vessels allows them to operate not only in ice-bound routes, but also in conventional tanker routes. Usually rates for ice bound trades are at a premium to conventional tanker trades for the period the vessel operates in such demanding conditions. Ice-class vessels do not commonly operate throughout the year in such harsh environments. We can not guarantee that our vessels will operate in ice-class trades for meaningful periods and/or earn rates with premiums to compensate for the investment made. If our vessels fail to earn any material and sustained ice-class premium, their revenues would derive from conventional routes which we can not guarantee will be adequate to financially support our ice-class investment. If our counterparties were to fail to meet their obligations under a charter agreements we could suffer losses or our business could be otherwise adversely affected. Thirty-three of our vessels are currently employed under time charters and four of our vessels are currently employed on contracts of affreightment. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under their charters with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the oil and energy industries and of the oil and oil products shipping industry as well as the overall financial condition of the counterparties. With the steep declines in the prices of crude oil and oil products, there can be no assurance that some of our customers would not fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult for us to secure substitute employment for the affected vessels, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters could be at lower rates given the currently depressed charter rate levels. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends in the future. If the charterer under our bareboat charter is unable to perform under the charter, we may lose revenues. We currently have a bareboat charter contract for the Millennium and time charters with profit share for four other vessels with Hyundai Merchant Marine (HMM), a member of the Hyundai group of companies. The financial difficulties that the Hyundai group has faced in the past may still affect HMM’s ability to perform under these charters, which are scheduled to expire between 2009 and 2013. This could result in the loss of significant revenue. In addition, we may expand this chartering relationship with HMM to other vessels in our fleet which would ultimately increase our exposure to that particular charterer. 13 Table of Contents We will face challenges as we diversify and position our fleet to meet the needs of our customers. We may need to diversify our fleet to accommodate the transportation of forms of energy other than crude oil and petroleum products in response to industry developments and our customers’ needs. Accordingly, the Company is continually exploring opportunities in other areas such as the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) market and the greater oil onshore / offshore sector. As the composition of our fleet continues to change, we may not have adequate experience in transporting these other forms of energy. In addition, if the cost structure of a diversified fleet that is able to transport other forms of energy differs significantly from the cost structure of our current fleet, our profitability could be adversely affected. We may not have adequate insurance. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. We believe that we maintain as much insurance on our vessels, through insurance companies, including Argosy, a related party company and P&I clubs as is appropriate and consistent with industry practice. However, particularly in view of the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, and pirate activity off the coast of Africa, we cannot assure you that this insurance will remain available at reasonable rates, and we cannot assure you that the insurance we are able to obtain will cover all foreseen liabilities that we may incur, particularly those involving oil spills and catastrophic environmental damage. In addition, we may not be able to insure certain types of losses, including loss of hire, for which insurance coverage may become unavailable. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity clubs, and our clubs may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our subsidiaries are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I clubs. P&I clubs are mutual insurance clubs whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other club members. The objective of a P&I club is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member’s vessels entered into the club. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the club, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the club. Claims submitted to the club may include those incurred by members of the club, as well as claims submitted to the club from other P&I clubs with which our P&I club has entered into interclub agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I clubs to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect our profitability. The insolvency or financial deterioration of any of our insurers or reinsurers would negatively affect our ability to recover claims for covered losses on our vessels. We have placed our hull and machinery, increased value and loss of hire insurance with Argosy, a captive insurance company affiliated with Tsakos Shipping. Argosy reinsures the insurance it underwrites for us with various reinsurers, however, the coverage deductibles of the reinsurance policies periodically exceed the coverage deductibles of the insurance policies Argosy underwrites for us. Argosy, therefore, would be liable with respect to the difference between those deductibles in the event of a claim by us to which the deductibles apply. Although these reinsurers have credit ratings ranging from BBB to AA, we do not have the ability to independently determine our insurers’ and reinsurers’ creditworthiness or their ability to pay on any claims that we may have as a result of a loss. In the event of insolvency or other financial deterioration of our insurer or its reinsurers, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover on any claims we suffer. Our degree of leverage and certain restrictions in our financing agreements impose constraints on us. We incur substantial debt to finance the acquisition of our tankers. At December 31, 2008, our debt to capital ratio was 62.4 % (debt / debt plus equity), with $1.51 billion in long-term debt outstanding. Assuming known and estimated debt financing arrangements for our future newbuilding deliveries and based on our current forecasts of income for 2009 and 2010, we expect this ratio to be at approximately 60% by the end of December 2009, and declining thereafter. We are required to apply a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, before interest payments, to the payment of principal and interest on this debt. In 2008, approximately 33% of cash flow derived from operations was dedicated to debt service, excluding any debt prepayment upon the sale of vessels. This limits the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other purposes. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences for us, including the following: • a substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; 14 Table of Contents • we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may make it more difficult for us to expand our fleet; and • any significant amount of leverage exposes us to increased interest rate risk and makes us vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. In addition, our financing arrangements, which we secured by mortgages on our ships, impose operating and financial restrictions on us that restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • sell the capital of our subsidiaries or other assets; • make investments; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; • repurchase common shares; and • pay cash dividends. We have a holding company structure which depends on dividends from our subsidiaries and interest income to pay our overhead expenses and otherwise fund expenditures consisting primarily of advances on newbuilding contracts and the payment of dividends to our shareholders. As a result, restrictions contained in our financing arrangements and those of our subsidiaries on the payment of dividends may restrict our ability to fund our various activities. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We selectively enter into derivative contracts, which can result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. In the past nine years we have selectively entered into derivative contracts both for investment purposes and to hedge our overall interest expense. Our board of directors is regularly informed of the status of our derivatives in order to assess that such derivatives are within reasonable limits and reasonable in light of our particular investment strategy at the time we entered into the derivative contracts. Loans advanced under our secured credit facilities are, generally, advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected at any time that we have not entered into interest rate hedging arrangements to hedge our interest rate exposure and the interest rates applicable to our credit facilities and any other financing arrangements we may enter into in the future, including those we enter into to finance a portion of the amounts payable with respect to newbuildings. Moreover, even if we have entered into interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments for purposes of managing our interest rate exposure, our hedging strategies may not be effective and we may incur substantial loss. We have a risk management policy and a risk committee to oversee all our derivative transactions. It is our policy to monitor our exposure to business risk, and to manage the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rate movements and bunker prices on earnings and cash flows through derivatives. Derivative contracts are executed when management believes that the action is not likely to significantly increase overall risk. Entering into swaps and derivatives transactions is inherently risky and presents various possibilities for incurring significant 15 Table of Contents expenses. The derivatives strategies that we employ in the future may not be successful or effective, and we could, as a result, incur substantial additional interest costs. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a description of how our current interest rate swap arrangements have been impacted by recent events. The appraised values of our ships could deteriorate as the result of a variety of factors, resulting in our inability to comply with covenants under our loan agreements. The loan agreements we use to finance our ships require us not to exceed specified debt-to-asset ratios. Our only significant assets are our ships, which are appraised each year. The appraised value of a ship fluctuates depending on a variety of factors including the age of the ship, its hull configuration, prevailing charter market conditions, supply and demand balance for ships and new and pending legislation. We cannot guarantee that a deterioration of our asset values will not result in defaults in the future, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a waiver in the event of a default. A default under one of our loan agreements could trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in our other loan agreements, which in turn could result in all or a substantial amount of our debt becoming due at a time when we could not satisfy our obligations. If we default under any of our loan agreements, we could forfeit our rights in our vessels and their charters. All of our vessels and related collateral are individually pledged as security to the respective lenders under our loan agreements. Default under any of these loan agreements, if not waived or modified, would permit the lenders to foreclose on the mortgages over the vessels and the related collateral, and we could lose our rights in the vessels and their charters. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry-docking costs which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of drydock repairs can be both substantial and unpredictable. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover. This would result in decreased earnings. A significant amount of our 2008 revenues was derived from four customers and a significant amount of our 2007 revenues was derived from five customers, and our revenues could decrease significantly if we lost these customers. In 2008, 15% of our revenues came from Houston Refining (formerly Lyondell/Citgo), 11% of our revenues came from Petrobras, 11% of our revenues from HMM and approximately 8% from NESTE. Our inability or failure to continue to employ our vessels at rates comparable to those earned from these customers, the loss of these customers or our failure to charter these vessels otherwise in a reasonable period of time or at all could adversely affect our operations and performance. Although our customers generally include leading national, major and other independent oil companies and refiners, we are unable to assure you that future economic circumstances will not render one or more of such customers unable to pay us amounts that they owe us, or that these important customers will not decide to contract with our competitors or perform their shipping functions themselves. Approximately 15% of our revenue is derived from our customers that conduct a significant amount of business in Venezuela. Houston Refining (formerly Lyondell/Citgo), accounted for approximately 15% in 2008 and 12% in 2007 of our revenues. This company conducts a significant amount of business in Venezuela. Venezuela has experienced economic difficulties and social and political changes in recent years and we cannot say whether there will be further unrest or political upheavals in Venezuela. If we were to lose this customer, or if its exports were curtailed, or if this customer was to become unable to perform their contractual obligations to us, our earnings would be adversely affected. If we were to be subject to tax in jurisdictions in which we operate, our financial results would be adversely affected. Our income is not presently subject to taxation in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax. We believe that we should not be subject to tax under the laws of various countries other than the United States in which we conduct activities or in which our customers are located. However, our belief is based on our understanding of the tax laws of those countries, and our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities 16 Table of Contents and to possible changes in law or interpretation. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax or to make payments in lieu of tax. In addition, payments due to us from our customers may be subject to tax claims. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a gross 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. We believe that we and our subsidiaries qualified for this exemption for 2008. There are, however, factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us and our subsidiaries to be unable to obtain the benefit of this tax exemption in future years and thus to be subject to United States federal income tax on United States source shipping income. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. See “Tax Considerations—United States federal income tax considerations” for additional information about the requirements of this exemption. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our gross U.S.-source shipping income, without allowance for deductions, under Section 887 of the Internal Revenue Code. The imposition of such tax could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. investor in our common shares would be subject to disadvantageous rules under the U.S. tax laws. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) in any year, U.S. holders of our common shares would be subject to unfavorable U.S. federal income tax treatment. We do not believe that we will be a PFIC in 2009 or in any future year. However, PFIC classification is a factual determination made annually and we could become a PFIC if the portion of our income derived from bareboat charters or other passive sources were to increase substantially or if the portion of our assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income were to increase substantially. Moreover, the IRS or a court may disagree with our position that time and voyage charters do not give rise to passive income (and that the related vessels are not passive assets) for purposes of the PFIC rules. In this regard we note that, while there is no authority specifically under the PFIC rules regarding the characterization of time or voyage charters as leases or service contracts and there are older authorities in other areas of the tax law that tend to support our position regarding time and voyage charters, a recent federal court decision addressing the characterization of time charters concludes that they constitute leases for federal income tax purposes and employs an analysis which, if applied to our time or voyage charters, could result in our treatment as a PFIC. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will not be treated as a PFIC for 2009 or for any future year. Please see “Tax Considerations—United States federal income tax considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations” herein for a description of the PFIC rules. Dividends we pay with respect to our common shares to United States holders would not be eligible to be taxed at reduced U.S. tax rates applicable to qualifying dividends if we were a passive foreign investment company or under other circumstances. For taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2011, distributions on the common shares of non-U.S. companies that are treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are received by individuals generally will be eligible for taxation at capital gain rates if the common shares with respect to which the dividends are paid are readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States. This treatment will not be available to dividends we pay, however, if we qualify as a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend or the preceding taxable year, or to the extent that (i) the shareholder does not satisfy a holding period requirement that generally requires that the shareholder hold the shares on which the dividend is paid for more than 60 days during the 121-day period that begins 60 days before the date on which the shares become ex-dividend with respect to such dividend, (ii) the shareholder is under an obligation to make related payments with respect to substantially similar or related property or (iii) such dividend is taken into account as investment income under Section 163(d)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code. We do not believe that we qualified as a PFIC for our last taxable year and, as described above, we do not expect to qualify as a PFIC for our current or future taxable years. Legislation has been proposed in the United States Congress which, if enacted in its current form, would likely cause dividends on our shares to be ineligible for the preferential tax rates described above. There can be no assurance regarding whether, or in what form, such legislation will be enacted. 17 Table of Contents Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. The charterers of our vessels pay us in U.S. dollars. While we incur most of our expenses in U.S. dollars, we have in the past incurred expenses in other currencies, most notably the Euro. In 2008, Euro expenses accounted for approximately 20% of our total operating expenses. Declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, or the other currencies in which we incur expenses, would increase the U.S. dollar cost of paying these expenses and thus would adversely affect our results of operations. The Tsakos Holdings Foundation and the Tsakos family can exert considerable control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of December 31, 2008, companies controlled by the Tsakos Holdings Foundation or affiliated with the Tsakos Group own approximately 39% of our common shares. The Tsakos Holdings Foundation is a Liechtenstein foundation whose beneficiaries include persons and entities affiliated with the Tsakos family, charitable institutions and other unaffiliated persons and entities. The council which controls the Tsakos Holdings Foundation consists of five members, two of whom are members of the Tsakos family. As long as the Tsakos Holdings Foundation and the Tsakos family beneficially own a significant percentage of our common shares, each will have the power to influence the election of the members of our board of directors and the vote on substantially all other matters, including significant corporate actions. Risks Related To Our Common Shares We may not be able to pay cash dividends on our common shares as intended. In October of 2008, we paid a cash dividend of $0.90 per common share in relation to the year 2008. In April 2009, we paid a further dividend of $0.85 per common share relating to 2008. Subject to the limitations discussed below, we currently intend to continue to pay regular cash dividends on our common shares of between one-quarter and one-half of our annual net income for the year in respect of which the dividends are paid. However, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends or as to the amount of any dividend. The payment and the amount will be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, on available cash balances, anticipated cash needs, our results of operations, our financial condition, and any loan agreement restrictions binding us or our subsidiaries, as well as other relevant factors. For example, if we earned a capital gain on the sale of a vessel or newbuilding contract, we could determine to reinvest that gain instead of using it to pay dividends. Depending on our operating performance for that year, this could result in no dividend at all despite the existence of net income, or a dividend that represents a lower percentage of our net income. Any payment of cash dividends could slow our ability to renew and expand our fleet, and could cause delays in the completion of our current newbuilding program. Because we are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends will depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay us dividends. In addition, the financing arrangements for indebtedness we incur in connection with our newbuilding program may further restrict our ability to pay dividends. In the event of any insolvency, bankruptcy or similar proceedings of a subsidiary, creditors of such subsidiary would generally be entitled to priority over us with respect to assets of the affected subsidiary. Investors in our common shares may be adversely affected if we are unable to or do not pay dividends as intended. Provisions in our Bye-laws, our management agreement with Tsakos Energy Management and our shareholder rights plan would make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such a transaction is beneficial to our shareholders. Our Bye-laws provide for a staggered board of directors, blank check preferred stock, super majority voting requirements and other anti-takeover provisions, including restrictions on business combinations with interested persons and limitations on the voting rights of shareholders who acquire more than 15% of our common shares. In addition, Tsakos Energy Management would have the right to terminate our management agreement and seek liquidated damages if a board member were elected without having been approved by the current board. Furthermore, our shareholder rights plan authorizes issuance to existing shareholders of substantial numbers of preferred share rights and common shares in the event a third party seeks to acquire control of a substantial block of our common shares. These provisions could deter a third party from tendering for the purchase of some or all of our shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control of the ownership and management of our company, even if such transactions would have significant benefits to our shareholders. 18 Table of Contents Our shareholder rights plan could prevent you from receiving a premium over the market price for your common shares from a potential acquirer. Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan that authorizes issuance to our existing shareholders of substantial preferred share rights and additional common shares if any third party acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common shares or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common shares, in each case, in a transaction that our board of directors has not approved. The existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of our company without the support of our board of directors because, under these limited circumstances, all of our shareholders, other than the person or group that caused the rights to become exercisable, would become entitled to purchase our common shares at a discount. The existence of the rights plan could therefore deter potential acquirers and thereby reduce the likelihood that you will receive a premium for your common shares in an acquisition. See “Description of Capital Stock—Shareholder Rights Plan” for a description of our shareholder rights plan. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights as a shareholder in a U.S. corporation. We are a Bermuda corporation. Our Memorandum of Association and Bye-laws and the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the “Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda”), govern our affairs. While many provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States, Bermuda law may not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, apart from one non-executive director, our directors and officers are not resident in the United States and all or substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests and enforcing judgments in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 