Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business If we fail to effectively expand our current operations and capacity to satisfy demand for our granular fertilizer products, our results of operations and business prospects could be impaired. We believe that over the next year demand for our granular fertilizer products will outgrow our present production capacity of 200,000 metric tons. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our business to address the growth in demand for our granular fertilizer products. Because our industry is highly competitive, if we are unable to increase our production capabilities to meet increased demand for our products, we may lose existing customers, as well as potential additional customers, to competitors with greater production capacities. If we lose our existing customers our revenues could decrease and accordingly our overall financial performance could be significantly impaired. In addition, we currently rely on distributors to distribute our products to multiple end users. Our ability to add production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the availability of additional funding to build manufacturing facilities and purchase raw materials on favorable terms or at all; · our management and minimization of delays and cost overruns caused by problems with our suppliers of raw materials and third-party vendors; and · our receipt of any necessary government approvals or permits that may be required to expand our operations in a timely manner or at all. If we cannot successfully implement additional production capacity increases efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy any increased demand for our granular fertilizers, which could significantly impair our financial performance. 11 We currently intend to build branded retail chain stores and we do not have any prior experience in the retail business. We currently plan to build branded chain stores in 2010 to sell our own and third party products, including fertilizers, seeds, pesticides, and other agricultural products throughout central provinces of China. We do not have any track record in the retail business and there can be no assurance that our Company will be successful in planning, building or operating the retail stores. The ability to operate our new stores successfully is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. These contingencies include our ability to secure suitable locations on a timely basis and on satisfactory terms, our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel and the successful integration of our stores with our existing marketing and distribution network. There can be no assurance that suitable locations will be available or that our proposed retail operations will be successfully implemented or integrated with our existing operations. The costs associated with acquiring, assimilating and opening new stores may adversely affect our profitability. The planned expansion of our sales channel may not produce the revenues, earnings, or business synergies that we anticipate which could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. The successful implementation of this business plan will require the dedication of significant time and of our senior management, which may cause senior management to divert their attention from the normal daily operations of our fertilizer manufacturing business which could adversely impact our overall business operations. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may suffer. We have made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the organic compound fertilizer market in the PRC. The expansion of our internal manufacturing capabilities has required significant up-front fixed costs. If market demand for our products does not increase as quickly as we have anticipated and align with our expanded manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and to achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of high operating expenses, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations. If we cannot protect the proprietary formula and manufacturing processes for our concentrated organic liquid and granular compound fertilizer products it could increase our competition and cause our operating results to suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary formula and manufacturing process for organic liquid and granular compound fertilizer products. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary formulas and manufacturing processes. We have not applied for patents for our technology and formulas because we believe an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas and could lead competitors to attempt to copy our products, thereby increasing competition. Only certain of our key employees have knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. This could in turn result in a decrease of our market share and hurt our operating results. Our subsidiary Pacific Dragon entered into a license agreement with Mr. Yu Chang, our Chairman, CEO and President, under which Mr. Chang granted us an exclusive license to use his know-how in manufacturing Tailong organic liquid compound fertilizer on a royalty-free basis. The Company continues to develop the manufacturing know-how of the product at its expense. Under the license agreement, Mr. Chang has the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of this technology and is prohibited from licensing this technology to any third party or using the technology for his own benefit. The license agreement is for a period of three years expiring December 31, 2011. We are negotiating with Mr. Chang to extend this exclusive license for an additional three-year term, but we cannot assure you that such an agreement will be met. Despite these precautions, the legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. If we are not able to enforce our licensing agreement with Mr. Chang and fully protect our proprietary trade secrets, if our employees unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential technology or know-how to competitors, or if our competitors independently develop similar or superior products, our competitors may be able to more effectively offer products similar to ours and/or produce products with a cost structure similar to ours, if not better, and we may thereby lose any competitive advantage that we currently have. If we are forced to take legal action to protect our proprietary formulas and processes, we will incur significant expense and further could not guarantee a favorable outcome. 12 In addition, our competitors may counterfeit our products and use our trademark. These counterfeit products could damage our reputation and create confusion for our customers. Our financial results would be negatively impacted by the lost sales to the fake and/or competitive product or by lost sales from a damaged reputation. Our proprietary fertilizer formulas may become obsolete which could materially adversely affect the competitiveness of our future fertilizer products. The production of our fertilizer products is based on our proprietary fertilizer formulas. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging humic acid fertilizer products and by developing and introducing enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. If our proprietary formula becomes obsolete as our competitors develop better products than ours, our future business and financial results could be adversely affected. We may be subject to more stringent governmental regulation on our products. The manufacture and sale of our agricultural products in the PRC is regulated by the PRC Ministry of Agriculture and the local government of the Provinces in which our factories are situated. The legal and regulatory regime governing our industry is evolving, and we may become subject to different, including more stringent, requirements than those currently applicable to us. While we believe a more stringent standard will have more of an adverse impact on those manufacturers with poor quality products, we cannot assure you any regulatory change will not adversely affect our business. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. To our knowledge, neither the production nor the sale of our products constitutes activities, or generate materials that create any environmental hazards or violate the current PRC environmental laws. Although it has not been alleged by PRC government officials that we have violated any current environmental regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not amend the current PRC environmental protection laws and regulations in a way that could adversely impact us. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we were to be held liable for violating existing environmental regulations or if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. In addition, under current SEC rules, we will be required to obtain an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 13 As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $39.3 million of accounts receivable, net, or 39.0% of our total assets and we extend credit to our customers for long periods of time which adversely impact our working capital. Our liquid organic fertilizers account for approximately 62% of our total annual sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. We typically extend our liquid fertilizer’s customers credit for their purchase of our products to allow them use the proceeds of their harvests to repay us for their purchase of our products, which typically spans from six to nine months. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $29.5 million of accounts receivable from customers of liquid fertilizers, or 75.1% of our total accounts receivable. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A natural disaster, such as a wildfire, flood or drought, or an economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the collection of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management's expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that natural disasters, system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. We depend heavily on Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, and without his services our prospects would be severely limited. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continuing contribution of Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and Chairman. Mr. Chang has extensive experience in the organic compound fertilizer industry and is directly involved in all of our business operations. We currently have no employment agreement with Mr. Chang and Mr. Chang is not obligated to devote any specified number of hours to working for us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reach an agreement with Mr. Chang on terms favorable to us, if at all. If Mr. Chang ceases to be employed by us, we may have difficulty finding a suitable replacement with equal leadership and industry experience, and our business would suffer because we will not have the leadership needed to capitalize on market opportunities and to direct our growth, leading to a possible decrease in revenues and inappropriate capital investments in projects that may not benefit our long-term growth. Mr. Chang has both sales contacts in the Agricultural industry and know-how to produce our products, making his expertise both unique and valuable to us. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our executive officers. We depend heavily on skilled research and development personnel, and any loss of such personnel, or the failure to continue to attract such personnel in the future, could harm our business. The agricultural chemicals business is specialized and requires the employment of personnel with significant scientific and operational experience in the industry. Accordingly, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically and scientifically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional management and other key personnel that have the necessary scientific, technical and operational skills and experience with the fertilizer industry. These individuals are difficult to find in the PRC and we may not be able to retain such skilled employees. If we are unable to hire individuals with the requisite experience we may not be able to produce enough products to optimize profits, research and development initiatives may be delayed and we may encounter disruptions in production and research which will negatively impact our financial condition. 14 We currently rely on a small number of third parties to supply the key raw materials we use to produce our products. Our business depends upon the availability of key raw materials, including humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, kalium, and other supplementary material. We rely on only a few external suppliers for these raw materials and we have only non-binding supply agreements. In fiscal year 2009, we purchased approximately 18%, 17%, 15% and 13% of our total annual purchases from Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Development Company, Harbin Hai Heng Chemical Distribution Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company and Langfang Tong Chuang Industrial and Trading Company Ltd., respectively. Our purchases through December 31, 2009 were from similar sources and in similar amounts, and for the 2010 fiscal year we expect that our raw materials suppliers will be substantially similar to past years and the amount of raw materials will increase commensurate with the increase in the demand for our fertilizer products. We have entered into written agreements with all of these suppliers, each under supply agreements that expire in December 2010. If any of our major suppliers were to default or become unable to deliver the raw materials in sufficient quantities, we may be unable to purchase these raw materials from alternative sources on the same or similar terms, which could result in a significant increase in our operating costs. When these supply agreements expire in December 2010, we may be unable to negotiate new agreements with these suppliers on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, any disruption in the supply of our raw materials could cause delay in the delivery of our products which would be harmful to our sales reputation and business. If supply is disrupted the increased amount we have to pay for raw materials could negatively impact our margins, cause us to delay deliveries which may cause us to breach contracts or damage customer relationships or cause us to cease production if an alternate supplier cannot be found. If we were unable to procure replacement supplies, our inability to meet the production demands of our customers could cause the loss of customers and/or market share. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by the lost sales or decreased margins. We rely on a limited number of products to achieve most of our revenues. We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. For example, our liquid organic fertilizer accounted for 91.0% and 62.0% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, while granular fertilizer accounted for 9.0% and 38.0% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions which could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological change that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. This may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. Our liquid and granular fertilizer sales have seasonal variations and adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for our products. We experience seasonal variations in our revenues and our operating costs. The peak selling season for our liquid fertilizer products is from April through September. Periods of cold weather may delay the application of the liquid fertilizer, or render it unnecessary, thereby reducing demand for such fertilizer products. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 60.8% of our annual liquid fertilizer sales volume came from the second and third fiscal quarters, when demand for our liquid fertilizer products typically peaks during planting season and prior to harvest. We believe that the peak selling season for our granular fertilizer products is from October through March the next calendar year. Since our granular fertilizer was only commercially launched into the market in the second quarter of 2009, we have not yet developed an established record of seasonal revenues for these products. Although we believe that the peak selling seasons for our liquid and granular fertilizers as referenced above are different and do not overlap, we may still experience seasonal variations, and we cannot assure you that sales of our granular fertilizer products will mitigate the seasonal impact of fertilizer sales. If we are unable to design, manufacture, and market products in a timely and efficient manner, we may not remain as competitive. Some of our products are characterized by continuing technological advancement, changes in customer requirements, and evolving product standards. Accordingly, we devote a substantial amount of resources to product development. To compete successfully, we must develop and offer new and/or improved products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. As a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks and cost overruns. Product development is highly uncertain and we cannot assure you that we will successfully develop new products. Our inability to develop and offer new and/or improved products or to achieve customer acceptance of these products could limit our ability to compete in the market or to grow revenues at desired rates of growth. 15 Our ability to attract new customers in the PRC depends on the continued transition from the use of less expensive chemical fertilizers to organic fertilizers that we sell. We estimate that approximately 90% of the fertilizer products used in the PRC today are chemical fertilizers, rather than organic fertilizers. Farmers in the PRC have been using chemical fertilizers for decades, and we believe that our growth depends on our ability to convince these farmers to switch to organic fertilizers, such as our products, despite the increased cost of such products. Many prospective customers are rural farmers that are isolated and, we believe, lack an understanding of the environmental and health benefits of our organic fertilizer products. Even if these potential customers are aware of the benefits of our products, we believe that the increased cost of our products as compared to chemical fertilizers may be prohibitive for some rural farmers. While we may take steps, though our distributors, to educate users of chemical fertilizers about the benefits of our products, we believe that it will be difficult to convince significant numbers of small farmers, some of who use no fertilizer at all, to purchase our products. If we cannot continue to drive the transition to organic fertilizer products in the provinces that we serve, our sales will stagnate and our financial results will suffer. Our entry into foreign markets exposes us to changes in foreign regulations and other risks inherent to international business, any of which could effect our results of operations. In June 2009, we granted exclusive marketing and distribution rights for certain of our Lvlingbao organic liquid fertilizer products to Odyssey International (Trading) Group Ltd. (“Odyssey”), which plans to market our products in Central and South America, South Africa and certain Southeast Asian countries. Distributing our products in these markets presents risks including: · volatility in general economic, social and political conditions; · differing tax rates, tariffs, exchange controls or other similar restrictions; · changes in currency rates; · inability to repatriate income or capital; · changes in, and compliance with, domestic and foreign laws and regulations which impose a range of restriction on operations, trade practices, trade partners and investment decisions; · seizure of our products by foreign governments · boycotts and embargoes that may be imposed by the international community on countries in which we operate; · labor unrest; and · disruptions due to civil war, election outcomes, shortages of commodities, power interruptions or inflation; the imposition of unexpected taxes or other payments on revenues. Any of these risks could limit our ability to operate or have a negative impact on our profitability. 16 We have granted exclusive rights to market and distribute our Lvlingbao line of liquid organic compound fertilizers to Odyssey and their efforts to market and distribute our products are outside of our control. In June 2009 we granted Odyssey the exclusive right to market and distribute our Lvlingbao line of liquid organic compound fertilizers in Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan provinces within the PRC, as well as outside of the PRC, such as Central and South America, South Africa and certain Southeast Asian countries. The revenue we earn from the sale of our products under the agreement depends heavily on Odyssey’s efforts. Odyssey has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources it applies to the marketing and sale of our products, and Odyssey has a significant number of other clients whose products it distributes. Furthermore, regardless of the effort and resources they invest, Odyssey may not be effective in distributing or marketing our products. A disagreement between us and Odyssey could lead to lengthy and expensive dispute resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our relationship with Odyssey were to terminate, we may not be able to enter into another distribution and marketing agreement with a company with similar resources to distribute our products and perform on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, we could experience delays in our ability to distribute our products and increased expenses, all of which would have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results will suffer if the price of raw materials increases and we cannot pass the increased cost through to our customers. The primary raw materials included in our products are humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, kalium and other supplementary material. The prices for these raw materials are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including energy costs, organic chemical feedstock, market demand, and freight costs. The prices for these raw materials may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in these forces. Our operating results may be seriously harmed if we are unable to pass any raw material price increases through to our customers due to lower margins from our sales. If we are forced to increase prices of our products due to increases in the prices of raw materials, the demand for our products could decrease, which could materially harm our operations and financial results. Demand for our products may decrease if the PRC government changes the requirements for the “Green Food” rating. Food grown using our fertilizer products qualifies to be certified by the PRC government as Grade AA “Green Food.” Green food certified by the China Green Food Research Center can be divided into 2 groups: Grade A (allowed to use certain amount of chemical materials) and Grade AA (containing little or no chemical materials - also known as organic food). The Green food certification came about in response to the overuse of fertilizers and pesticides in the PRC, as well as the use of unsafe fertilizers and pesticides, which led to the sale of products with dangerous and high concentrations of harmful chemicals and several publicized incidents of food-caused illness. In addition to creating a dangerous situation for domestic consumers, it also created problems for the PRC’s food exporters which, in many cases, were barred from exporting to certain countries which have minimum acceptable standards for pesticide and chemical use. The loss of our “Green Food” certification would have a material and adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. The industry in which we do business is highly fragmented and competitive and we face competition from numerous fertilizer manufacturers in the PRC and elsewhere. We compete with approximately 300 small-sized, local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. Our most significant competition comes from sellers of chemical fertilizers who tend to be concentrated in the PRC’s central provinces. Chemical fertilizers tend to be less expensive than organic fertilizers, and we estimate that chemical fertilizers make up about 90% of the fertilizer market in the PRC. While we may have greater resources than our smaller competitors, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and established local distribution channels within a small region. Furthermore, we face competition from large domestic and international fertilizer producers and traders who import fertilizers into the PRC such as Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co., Ltd (www.psb.com.cn), Henan Luo Xiaowang Group (www.luoxiaowang.com), and Shangdong Tianda 2116 (www.2116.cn). Our major international competitors are Phosyn from the UK (www.cuikang.com/), Shi Ma (Chinese translation) part of BASF of Germany, Kemira GrowHow Oyj from Finland, and Leffingwell from the USA. These imported products range from fertilizers with single chemical elements, such as urea, phosphate and potash, to standard nitrogen phosphate, potassium compound fertilizers. The quality of the imported products is generally higher and more stable than fertilizers produced in the PRC. While our resources may not be as great as our larger competitors, we believe our product quality, sales network, brand recognition and sales network are superior. If our competitors are able to gain greater market share or improve their sales efforts, our sales may decrease, we may be forced to lower our prices, or our marketing costs may increase, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. 17 Our major competitors may be better able than we to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices, which may likely sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced in either case. Historically, imported fertilizers have been subject to tariffs, duties and quotas imposed by the PRC government. In connection with the PRC’s entry into the World Trade Organization, based on the WTO commitment, the PRC government started to allow foreign companies to sell and distribute fertilizers beginning in December 2006. As the PRC fertilizer market starts to gain more market participants, we will face increased competition which may create pricing, supply and demand constraints and cause our profit margins to suffer. We do not presently maintain business disruption insurance. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would damage our business and disrupt our production and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position on results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in the PRC. For example, in early 2008, parts of the PRC suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems and the power supply in those areas. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in the PRC suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake may have a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. In July 2008, explosive devices were detonated on several buses in Kunming, Yunnan Province of the PRC, which resulted in disruptions to public transportation systems in Kunming and casualties. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in the PRC could cause a reduction in usage of, or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The demand for our organic fertilizer products fluctuates significantly with weather conditions, which may delay the application of the fertilizer or render it unnecessary at all. If any natural disasters, such as flood, drought, hail, tornado or earthquake, occur, demands for our products will be reduced. In addition, in some cases, we allow our distributors to purchase our products partially on credit. The distributors, in turn, may sell the fertilizer to farmers on credit. If any natural disaster occurs, reduced crop yields may cause farmers to default on their payments which could harm our cash flow and results of operations. If we are unable to collect on our sales our cash flows will decrease and we will have additional expenses from bad debts which will harm our published financials results. While we have property damage insurance and automobile insurance, we do not carry business disruption insurance, which is not readily available in the PRC. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products, which would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. The fertilizer products that we manufacture pose safety risks and could expose us to product liability claims. Defects in, or unknown harmful effects caused by, organic and inorganic chemical and elements in our products could subject us to potential product liability claims that our products cause some harm to the human body or to property. Although we have adopted safety measures of industry standard in our research, development and manufacturing processes, accidents may still occur. Any accident, either at the manufacturing phase or during the use of our products, may subject us to significant liabilities to persons harmed by these products. We have renewed product liability insurance to cover claims from personal injuries or property damage caused by our products for the period from July 11, 2009 to July 10, 2010. Our insurance coverage was limited to approximately $585,000 (RMB 4,000,000) and may not have been sufficient to cover potential claims. A successful claim against us that is in excess of our insurance coverage could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and our business. As of the filing of this prospectus, no product liability claim has ever been brought against us. However, if we are involved in litigation in the future the potential judgment or settlement along with the litigation costs could harm our financial performance. 18 Risks Related To Doing Business In the PRC Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and substantially all of our sales are made in the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970’s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in the PRC through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of energy investments and expenditures in the PRC, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. 19 A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and almost all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years (Source: National Bureau of Statistics of China and Xinhuanet.com), we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The humic acid based fertilizer industry in the PRC is growing (Source: Ministry of Agriculture in the PRC), according to the PRC National Bureau of Statistics, the PRC’s economy expanded 6.8% from a year earlier in the fourth quarter of 2008, which means that a full-year growth for 2008 was 9.0%. It is the first time since 2002 that the PRC has expanded by less than 10% annually. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the RMB, which has adversely affected the PRC’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general or the PRC economy in particular. We do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, it has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products do not rise at a rate that is sufficient to fully absorb inflation-driven increases in our costs of supplies, our profitability can be adversely affected. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in the PRC has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of these and other similar policies can impede economic growth and thereby harm the market for our products. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and all of our revenues are derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects remain subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. Since 1978, the PRC has been one of the world’s fastest-growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP growth. We cannot assure you, however, that such growth will be sustained in the future. If, in the future, the PRC’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. Our ability to implement our business plan is based on the assumption that the Chinese economy will continue to grow. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. 20 The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that changes in the PRC’s economic, political or legal systems will not detrimentally affect our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of the PRC, which could reduce the demand for our product offerings and adversely affect our business and prospects. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate all of our revenues in the PRC. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be affected significantly by changes in the PRC’s economic, political and legal systems in the PRC. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher rate of inflation; · the stricter control over foreign exchange; and · government control over the allocation of many resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in the PRC through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. In the past 20 years, the PRC has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies measured in terms of growth in gross domestic product. However, in conjunction with recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and European Union, the growth rate in the PRC has declined in recent quarters. Any further adverse change in the economic conditions or any adverse change in government policies in the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of consumer spending in the PRC, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Deterioration of the PRC’s political relations with the U.S., Europe, or other nations could make Chinese businesses less attractive to Western investors. The relationship between the U.S. and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-foreign relations are difficult to predict and could materially adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or services to become less attractive. This could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations between the U.S., Europe, or other nations and the PRC could have a material adverse effect on our operations or our ability to raise additional capital. 21 Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi and some cash is denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of such amounts and the amount we will spend in purchasing equipment as well as our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, and appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future, although we have no plans to make such investments as of the date of this prospectus. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our subsidiaries’ exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to the PRC entities could materially increase our tax liabilities. The rate of income tax on companies in China may vary depending on the availability of preferential tax treatment or subsidies based on their industry or location. The current maximum corporate income tax rate is 33%. The new Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “EIT Law”) became effective as of January 1, 2008, pursuant to which, an enterprise income tax of 25% applies to any enterprise. Although we were approved by the local tax authority to be exempted from the enterprise income tax for a five-year period commencing in 2007 and ending in 2012, we do not know whether such new law will change the preferential treatment that was granted to us. Any loss or substantial reduction of the tax benefits enjoyed by us would reduce our net profit. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and the ability of the PRC entities to obtain financing. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside the PRC, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Under current PRC regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC entities may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts, subject to a cap set by the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterpart, for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of the PRC entities to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from the parent entity. 22 Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of the PRC entities or an affiliated entity to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund any business activities outside the PRC that are denominated in foreign currencies, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Because PRC law governs nearly all of our operating subsidiaries’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. PRC law governs almost all of the material agreements of Tailing, Anhui Agritech, Beijing Agritech, Xinjiang Agritech and Pacific Dragon, some of which could be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The Chinese legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in the PRC. Certain of our subsidiaries are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in the PRC in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, confidentiality protections in the PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to financing sectors, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. The PRC economy had been experiencing unprecedented growth before 2008, which could be curtailed if the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or its return to planned-economy policies, any of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The rapid growth of the Chinese economy before 2008 had led to higher levels of inflation. In the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending in order to try to control inflation. Similar government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in inflation. Government regulations on environmental matters in the PRC may adversely impact on our business. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations, rules and specifications relating to human health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations address and regulate, among other matters, wastewater discharge, air quality. In addition, third parties and governmental agencies in some cases have the power under such laws and regulations to require remediation of environmental conditions and, in the case of governmental agencies, to impose fines and penalties. We make capital expenditures from time to time to stay in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. All potential environmental liabilities may not have been identified or properly quantified and a prior owner, operator, or tenant may have created an environmental condition unknown to us. We may be potentially liable for damages or cleanup, investigation or remediation costs in connection with the ownership and operation of our properties (including locations to which we may have sent waste in the past) and the conduct of our business. 23 State and local environmental regulatory requirements change often. Future laws, ordinances or regulations might impose material environmental liability or the current environmental condition of the properties could in the future be affected by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. Moreover, it is possible that compliance with a new regulatory requirement could impose significant compliance costs on us. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The payment of dividends in the PRC is subject to limitations. We may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and joint venture enterprises is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. As of December 31, 2009, our PRC subsidiaries had allocated RMB49.9 million ($6.63 million) to these reserves, consisting of paid-in capital and statutory reserves. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In addition, under a new PRC tax law that became effective in January 2008 and the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement, which became effective on January 1, 2007, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 5%. The withholding tax on dividends may be exempted or reduced by the State Council of the PRC. Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. We are actively monitoring the proposed withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. Dividends we receive from our subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that an income tax rate of 10% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises.” Non-resident enterprises refer to enterprises which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The income tax for the non-resident enterprises shall be subject to withholding at income source with the payer acting as the obligatory withholder under the EIT Law, and therefore, such income tax is generally called “withholding tax” in practice. It is currently unclear in what circumstances a source will be considered as located within the PRC. As a U.S. holding company and substantially all of our income will be derived from dividends we receive from our PRC operating subsidiaries. Thus, if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and the dividends paid to us by our PRC operating subsidiaries are considered income sourced within the PRC, such dividends may be subject to a 10% withholding tax. Our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. Under PRC laws, our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax on behalf of our employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If we fail to withhold and/or pay such individual income tax in accordance with PRC laws, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. 24 In addition, the State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our employees working in the PRC (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) who exercise stock options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. While tax authorities may advise us that our policy is compliant, they may change their policy, and we could be subject to sanctions. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of PRC to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of RMB may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar could lead the RMB equivalent of the U.S. dollars be reduced and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of the PRC for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are stockholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident stockholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE in certain circumstances. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75. After consultation with PRC counsel, we do not believe that any of our PRC domestic resident stockholders are subject to the SAFE registration requirement, however, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are PRC residents will not be required to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations in the future. The failure or inability of our PRC resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. 25 As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Regulations on Employee Share Options may subject us and/or our PRC employees to regulatory liability. Under the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, issued on January 5, 2007 by the SAFE (“SAFE #78”), PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company (a company that is listed on a stock exchange) according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into RMB. When our PRC citizen employees are granted share options, they should be subject to SAFE #78. If we or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur in the PRC. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreak of contagious disease. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”) or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and the PRC. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and SARS. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 26 Risks Related to Our Stock Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officer, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we conduct substantially all of our operations in the PRC and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law, has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in the PRC may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between the PRC and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. The PRC does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and most of our directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. A limited number of stockholders currently beneficially own the majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, and this concentration of ownership could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company which might otherwise result in you receiving a premium over the market price for your common stock. A limited number of our stockholders own a majority of our outstanding common shares. As of March 23, 2010, 5 stockholders beneficially owned or controlled approximately 10,390,000 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 59.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock. By virtue of their shareholdings, these stockholders, if they vote together, are able to elect members of our Board of Directors, influence our management and affairs and possibly cause or prevent corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of our principal stockholders may differ from that of other stockholders, with the result that our principal stockholder may cause us to enter into transactions that may not be viewed as favorable to our other stockholders. 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 