ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ECONOMIC RECESSION; WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS The general worldwide deterioration of economic conditions and tightening of credit markets beginning in 2008 are contributing to slowdowns in many industries, including industries in which we or our customers operate. This deterioration and tightening affects businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. These conditions could negatively impact our businesses by adversely affecting, among other things, our: • Revenues • Profits • Margins • Cash flows • Levels of customers’ orders • Ability to access credit • Customer’s ability to pay amounts due to us. 10 Table of Contents We cannot predict the duration or severity of these conditions, but if they worsen or continue for an extended time, the negative impact on our business could increase. See MD&A for further discussion of how these conditions have affected our businesses to date and how they might affect them in the future. ECONOMIC RECESSION; LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL DUE TO ORGANIZATIONAL RESTRUCTURING AS A RESULT OF WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS We are dependent upon the services of our executive management team. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any member of the management team. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. Further, we depend upon the contributions of key managers to ensure long term future profitability. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations, improving our earnings consistency, and positioning the Company for long-term revenue growth. Because the management team has extensive experience within the transportation industry, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operation. In addition to their unique experience, our management team has fostered key relationships with our investors, customers and suppliers. These relationships are especially important to our Company and the loss of these relationships could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability. ECONOMIC RECESSION; IMPAIRMENT CHARGES COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS Future events may occur that would adversely affect the reported value of the Company’s assets and require impairment charges. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the current economic environment on the Company’s customer base, a material adverse change in the Company’s relationship with significant customers or business partners, or a sustained decline in the Company’s stock price. Given the macroeconomic environment and its adverse impact on certain business units in the second half of 2008, the Company evaluated its goodwill for impairment during the third quarter of 2008. The Company determined that no impairment was deemed necessary for 2008. The Company continues to evaluate the impact on economic and other developments on the Company and its business units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. If the Company’s total market capitalization is below reported consolidated stockholder’s equity at a future reporting date or for a sustained period, the Company considers this as an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill. The Company utilizes market capitalization in corroborating its assessment of the fair value of its reporting units. As a result, the Company may be required to perform additional impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. ECONOMIC RECESSION; OUR GROWTH RATE MAY NOT CONTINUE AT HISTORIC RATES We have experienced significant and rapid growth in revenue and profits since the completion of our restructuring in 2005, although growth has slowed in the second half of 2008. There can be no assurance that our business will return to its historical growth rate in the future given the current state of the world economy or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Further, there can be no assurance that our operating margins will not be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business or by changes in economic conditions. ECONOMIC RECESSION; WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO DEFAULT UNDER OUR CREDIT FACILITY Our facility credit agreement contains financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and funded debt to earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and amortization ratio. Failure to meet our financial covenants may have a material adverse impact on our operations. In addition, if we fail 11 Table of Contents to comply with the covenants of our credit facility, and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result under that facility. Our credit facility also contains other events of default customary for such financings. If an event of default were to occur, the lender could declare outstanding borrowings on our credit facility immediately due and payable thereby restricting our cash. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings under our credit facility if such borrowings were accelerated upon an event of default. CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION: RELIANCE ON AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY COULD SUBJECT OUR BUSINESS TO NEGATIVE TRENDS OR DEFAULTS ON ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We obtain a significant amount of our revenue from our largest customers. While individual customer rankings within our top customers often change from time-to-time, we rely upon our relationship with each of these large accounts for a significant portion of our revenues. Any interruption in the business volume awarded by these customers could materially adversely impact our revenues and resulting profitability. The automotive industry within the U.S. is highly competitive, with increased competition from foreign-based companies. The Big Three U.S. automakers have seen declining market shares fueling concern over whether they will be able to sufficiently scale their operations to ensure their continuation. In addition to the Big Three automotive manufacturers, our customers include various automotive industry suppliers that have been, and will continue to be, negatively impacted by the changing landscape in the U.S. automotive market. Continuing negative trends or a worsening in the financial condition of the domestic U.S. automotive manufacturers, or within the associated supplier base, could materially adversely impact our Company, our revenues, and our results of operations. ECONOMIC RISKS; RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE BUSINESS OF TRANSPORTATION AND LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT COULD SUBJECT US TO BUSINESS SWINGS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our business is dependent upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. These factors include: capacity swings in the trucking industry, significant increases or rapid fluctuations in fuel prices, interest rates, fuel taxes, government regulations, governmental and law enforcement anti-terrorism actions, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance premiums and labor costs. It is difficult at times to attract and retain qualified drivers and independent contract-drivers. Operations also are affected by recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries (such as manufacturing, retail and commercial printing) in which we have a significant concentration of customers. Seasonal factors could also adversely affect us. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season and operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months primarily due to increased operating costs in colder weather and higher fuel consumption as a result of increased idle time. Regional or nationwide fuel shortages could also have adverse effects. DEPENDENCE ON EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BY THIRD PARTIES; RELIANCE ON INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS COULD RESULT IN OUR INABILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES The trucking industry is dependent upon transportation equipment oftentimes provided by independent third parties. Periods of equipment shortages have occurred periodically in the transportation industry. If we cannot secure sufficient transportation equipment or transportation services from these third parties to meet our customers’ needs, our business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected and our customers could seek to have their transportation needs met by other parties on a temporary or permanent basis. NEW TRENDS AND TECHNOLOGY; CONSOLIDATION AMONG CUSTOMERS COULD ELIMINATE CUSTOMERS If, for any reason, our business method of providing transportation services ceases to be a preferred option of obtaining transportation services by our customers, or if new supply-chain or technological methods become available and widely utilized, thereby reducing the need for our transportation services, our business could be 12 Table of Contents adversely affected. Moreover, increasing consolidation among customers and the resulting ability of such customers to utilize their size to negotiate lower outsourcing costs has, and may continue in the future to have, a depressing effect on the pricing of transportation services. Consolidation is not limited to traditional customers such as manufacturers, but also includes consolidation of volume by third-party logistics companies, which increasingly control more of the transportation markets and influence prices of transportation services through the use of other technologies. INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS DUE TO INCREASED SECURITY MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO TERRORISM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and the ongoing military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat has and may cause significant disruption to commerce. Our business units depend on the free flow of products and services through multiple channels of commerce. In response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation and other services have at times been slowed or stopped altogether. Further delays or stoppages in transportation or other services could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of these activities and potential activities. We may also face interruption of services due to increased security measures in response to terrorism. The U.S. economy in general can be adversely affected by terrorist activities and potential activities. Any economic downturn could adversely impact our results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to grow our business. COMPETITION IS INTENSE AND OUR VOLUME OR PROFITS COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT The transportation and logistics services industry is heavily fragmented and intensely competitive and includes numerous regional, inter-regional and national competitors, none of which dominates the market. There are many larger transportation providers with significantly higher capital resources, which could allow that competitor to position their company as a low-cost provider. We often buy and sell transportation services from and too many of our competitors. Increased competition could create downward pressure on freight rates, and continued rate pressure may adversely affect our gross profit and income from operations REGULATION; WE ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION BEYOND OUR CONTROL, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE WAY IN WHICH WE OPERATE Our operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S. and international agencies. Our independent station owners and contractors also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. Such matters as weight and equipment dimensions are also subject to U.S. and international regulations. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to fuel emissions, drivers’ hours-of-service, ergonomics, or other matters affecting safety or operating methods. Future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us or by our suppliers who pass the costs onto us through higher prices could adversely affect our results of operations. REVENUE GROWTH MAY SLOW OR CEASE ALTOGETHER, THEREBY HURTING OUR PROFITS We have achieved significant revenue growth on a historical basis within our Express-1 operations. Our CGL operations have achieved rapid growth throughout their history. Our Bounce operations achieved rapid growth since its founding in 2008. There is no assurance that our revenue growth rate will continue at historical or desired levels, or that we can effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operating systems to respond to future growth. Our operating margins could be adversely affected by future changes in and expansion of our business. Slower or less profitable growth could adversely affect our stock price. 13 Table of Contents SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATION OF THE COMPANY’S CURRENT BUSINESS AND REVENUE MODELS COULD REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE PROFITABLY Our strategy for increasing revenue and profitability includes continued focus on the diverse transportation markets that we serve and the cultivation of organic growth opportunities. We look to expand our independent station network through key markets. We may experience difficulties and higher than expected expenses in executing our business strategy of expansion. We cannot be assured that any adjustment or change in the business and revenue models will prove to be successful. ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT BE ACCRETIVE TO OUR EARNINGS We have made multiple acquisitions since 2001. Accordingly, acquisitions have provided a substantial portion of our historical growth. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, or consummating future acquisitions. Historically, some of our acquisitions have not been successful. If we make acquisitions in the future, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate favorable terms or successfully integrate the acquired companies or assets into our business. If we fail to do so, or we experience other risks associated with acquisitions, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected INABILITY TO MANAGE GROWTH AND INTERNAL EXPANSION COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITS Our inability to manage anticipated future growth could hurt the results of operations. Expansion of operations will be required to address anticipated growth of our customer base and market opportunities. Expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Currently, we have a limited number of employees. We will need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a damaging effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. DEPENDENCE ON DRIVERS SUBJECTS US TO WORKFORCE INTERUPTIONS BEYOND OUR CONTROL Our driver force is primarily made up of independent contract drivers, with only a handful of company drivers in our Express-1 operations. At times we have experienced substantial difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers. In addition, because of the higher cost of fuel, insurance, and equipment, the available pool of independent contract drivers fluctuates. This is especially apparent within the fleet of straight trucks, which serve many of the critical needs of the expedite industry. Because of the shortage of qualified drivers, the availability of alternative jobs and intense recruiting competition from other trucking companies, we expect to continue to face difficulty increasing the number of drivers, who are our principal source of planned fleet expansion and resulting growth. In addition, our industry as a whole suffers from high rates of driver turnover, which requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to maintain our existing fleet. If we are unable to continue to attract a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages or operate with fewer pieces of equipment and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which would adversely affect our growth and profitability. Any increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our growth and profitability. INSURANCE AND CLAIMS EXPENSE MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our future insurance and claims expenses may exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We maintain general liability, auto liability, cargo, physical damage, trailer interchange, inland marine, contents, workers’ compensation, excess auto, general liability, errors and omissions and director’s and officer’s insurance policies for certain types of risks. Some of these policies are written with deductibles currently up to $25,000 per occurrence. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses and regularly evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to 14 Table of Contents reflect actual experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses above reserved amounts. Because of our deductibles, we have significant exposure to fluctuations in the number and severity of claims. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we experience an increase in the frequency and severity of claims for which we maintain higher deductible policies, accruals of significant amounts within a given period, or claims proving to be more severe than originally assessed. We offer all of our employees a self insurance funded health plan that include a third party claims administrator. Our stop-loss coverage limits our exposures on any specific claim and limits our exposure to the total claims expense within a year. We have no assurance that the levels of specific stop-loss purchased or the annual aggregate loss coverage purchased will provide a manageable means to control our health care insurance costs. We maintain coverage with insurance carriers that we believe are financially sound. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits are sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed those limits. It is possible that insurance carriers could raise premiums, especially in light of the recent dramatic drop in the worldwide capital markets and respond by replacing expected investment income with higher premiums. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could find it necessary to raise our deductibles or decrease our aggregate coverage limits when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if these expenses increase, if we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, or if we experience a claim for which we do not have coverage. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE PRICE OR AVAILABILITY OF FUEL MAY CHANGE OUR OPERATIONS STRUCTURE AND RESULTING PROFITABILITY Fuel prices constitute one of the greatest costs to our fleet of contractors and third parties who complete the physical movement of goods we manage. Fuel prices are highly volatile with the price and availability of all petroleum products subject to economic, political and other market forces beyond our control. Most of our customer contracts include fuel surcharge provisions to mitigate the effect of the fuel price increase over base amounts established in the contract. Significant changes in the price or availability of fuel in future periods or significant changes in our ability to mitigate fuel price increases through the use of fuel surcharges, could materially adversely impact our operations, fleet capacity and ability to generate both revenues and profits. NEED FOR SUBSTANTIAL, ADDITIONAL FINANCING MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE, IF NEEDED, AND OUR RESULTS COULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain financing if required to expand our business or that the present funding sources will continue to extend terms under which we can operate efficiently. If we are unable to secure financing under favorable terms, our Company may be negatively affected. There is no assurance that we will continue to be able to maintain financing on acceptable terms. VOLATILITY OF THE MARKET PRICE OF THE COMPANY’S STOCK CAN IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, IF NEEDED, AND IMPACTS OUR COMPENSATION EXPENSE The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Any of the following factors could affect the market price of our common stock: • Changes in earnings estimates and outlook by financial analysts; • Our failure to meet financial analysts’ and investors’ performance expectations; • Changes in market valuations of other transportation and logistics companies; • General market and economic conditions; or • Lower daily trading volume associated with our less followed stocks, and the resulting impact on our stock’s liquidity. In addition, many of the risks described elsewhere in this section could adversely affect the stock price. The stock markets have experienced price and volume volatility that have affected many companies’ stock prices. Stock 15 Table of Contents prices for many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These types of fluctuations may affect the market price of our common stock. As a component of the calculations prescribed for use in the calculation of compensation expense to be recorded in Financial Accounting Standard Statements Number 123R (SFAS 123R), volatility within the price of our common stock can impact the amount of compensation expense recorded within our financial statements. We adopted SFAS 123R for periods beginning January 1, 2006 and accordingly recorded compensation expense based in part upon the relative and historic volatility of our Company’s common stock in the statement of income for periods beginning thereafter. NO DIVIDENDS ANTICIPATED; COULD UNFAVORABLY IMPACT THE VALUE OF OUR STOCK TO INVESTORS We have no immediate plans to pay dividends. We currently plan to retain all future earnings and cash flows for use in the development of our business and to enhance shareholder value through growth and continued focus on increasing profitability. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the near future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 