Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully, along with the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information on page 39, in connection with evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While the Company believes it has identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect the Company’s business, performance or financial condition in the future. The retail industry is highly competitive, which could adversely impact the Company’s sales and profitability. The retail industry is highly competitive, with few barriers to entry. The Company competes with many other local, regional and national retailers for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of the Company’s business. Those competitors include other department stores, discounters, home furnishing stores, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs, direct-to-consumer businesses and other forms of retail commerce. Some competitors are larger than JCPenney, have greater financial resources available to them, and, as a result, may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Competition is characterized by many factors, including merchandise assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. The performance of competitors as well as changes in their pricing and promotional policies, marketing activities, new store openings, brand launches and other merchandise and operational strategies could cause the Company to have lower sales, lower gross margin and/or higher operating expenses such as marketing costs and other selling, general and administrative expenses, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company’s sales and operating results depend on customer preferences and fashion trends. The Company’s sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and customer preferences in a timely manner by consistently offering stylish quality merchandise assortments at competitive prices. The Company continuously assesses emerging styles and trends and focuses on developing a merchandise assortment to meet customer preferences. Even with these efforts, the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to successfully meet constantly changing customer demands. To the extent the Company’s predictions differ from its customers’ preferences, the Company may be faced with excess inventories for some products and/or missed opportunities for others. Excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to greater than anticipated discounts and markdowns that might be necessary to reduce inventory levels. Low inventory levels can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales and brand loyalty. Consequently, any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and customer preferences and buying trends could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and any significant misjudgments regarding inventory levels could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s growth and profitability depend on the level of consumer confidence and spending. The Company’s results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Many economic factors outside of the Company’s control, including the housing market, interest rates, recession, inflation and deflation, energy costs and availability, consumer credit availability and terms, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, and unemployment trends influence consumer confidence and spending. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence and spending. Additional events that could impact the Company’s performance include pandemics, terrorist threats and activities, worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, and political instability. A general reduction in the level of consumer spending could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. 4 Table of Contents The Company’s profitability depends on its ability to source merchandise and deliver it to the Company’s customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. The Company’s merchandise is sourced from a wide variety of suppliers, and its business depends on being able to find qualified suppliers and access products in a timely and efficient manner. A substantial portion of the Company’s merchandise is sourced outside of the United States. All of the Company’s suppliers must comply with the Company’s supplier legal compliance program and applicable laws. Although the Company diversifies its sourcing and production by country, the failure of a supplier to produce and deliver the Company’s goods on time, to meet the Company’s quality standards or to meet the requirements of the Company’s supplier compliance program or applicable laws, or the Company’s inability to flow merchandise to its stores or through Direct in the right quantities at the right time could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Similarly, political or financial instability, changes in U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affecting the importation and taxation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas, or changes in the enforcement of those laws and regulations, as well as currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade and the inability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s business is seasonal. The Company’s annual earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent on the results of operations for the last quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday season. The Company’s fiscal fourth-quarter results may fluctuate significantly, based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and weather conditions. This seasonality causes the Company’s operating results to vary considerably from quarter to quarter. The failure to successfully execute the Company’s new store growth strategy could adversely impact its future growth and profitability. The Company’s plans to accelerate the growth of new stores, primarily in the off-mall format, depend in part on the availability of store sites or existing retail stores on acceptable terms. The Company competes with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for its stores. Local land use and other regulations may impact the Company’s ability to find suitable locations. In addition, increases in real estate, construction and development costs could limit the Company’s growth opportunities and adversely impact its return on investment. Furthermore, although the Company has conducted strategic market research, including reviewing demographic and regional economic trends, prior to making a decision to enter into a particular market, the Company cannot be certain that its entry into a particular market will prove successful. The inability to execute the Company’s new store growth strategy in a manner that generates appropriate returns on investment could have an adverse impact on its future growth and profitability. The failure to attract, retain and motivate the Company’s associates, including associates in key positions, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s results depend on the contributions of its associates, including its senior management team and other key associates. Since 2000, the Company has hired seasoned individuals, including executive level associates and others with a breadth of experience in merchandising, marketing, and buying and allocation under a centralized model. The Company’s performance depends to a great extent on its ability to attract, retain and motivate quality associates throughout the organization, many of whom, particularly in the department stores, are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The Company’s ability to meet its labor needs while controlling its costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. If the Company is unable to attract, retain and motivate quality associates at all levels, its results of operations could be adversely impacted. The Company’s operations are dependent on information technology systems; disruptions in those systems could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s operations are dependent upon the integrity, security and consistent operation of various systems and data centers, including the point-of-sale systems in the stores, data centers that process transactions, 5 Table of Contents communication systems and various software applications used throughout the Company to track inventory flow, process transactions and generate performance and financial reports. The Company could encounter difficulties in developing new systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems. Such difficulties could lead to significant expenses or to losses due to disruption in business operations. In addition, despite the Company’s considerable efforts and technology to secure its computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. This could lead to loss of sales or profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. In addition, the continued realization of the benefits of the Company’s centralized buying and allocation processes and systems is a key element of the Company’s ability to meet its long-term customer and financial goals. The effectiveness of these processes and systems is an important component of the Company’s ability to have the right inventory at the right place, time and price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 