ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, operating results, financial condition or prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks and uncertainties. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. In addition, the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. Our business, operating results, financial performance or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. In assessing the risks and uncertainties described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and pricing pressure or other competitive dynamics, which could include customers developing their own solutions, could adversely affect our business and operating results. The markets for digital marketing solutions are fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly changing. With the introduction of new technologies and potential new entrants into these markets, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our margins. We provide digital marketing solutions to a broad array of customers, ranging from enterprises to small businesses. We have a large number of competitors, most significantly Exact Target, Inc., Responsys, Inc., and Silverpop Systems Inc. We also face competition from social media marketing providers, as well as from in-house solutions that our current and prospective customers may develop. We may also face competition from new companies entering our markets, which may include large established businesses, such as Adobe Systems Incorporated, Amazon.com, Inc., Google Inc., Oracle Corporation or salesforce.com, Inc., each of which currently offers, or may in the future offer, digital marketing or related applications such as applications for customer relationship management, analysis of internet data and marketing automation. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive digital marketing products or services, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be compromised, and our operating results could be harmed. Furthermore, we believe that our industry may experience further consolidation, which could lead to increased competition and result in pricing pressure or loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, limit our growth prospects or reduce our revenue. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services than we can, may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In some cases, these companies may choose to offer digital marketing applications at little or no additional cost to the customer by bundling them with their existing applications. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions and related professional services could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities and teams, we may not be able to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our SaaS solutions. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend on our ability to expand our sales and marketing teams and their capabilities to obtain new customers and sell additional products and services to existing customers. We believe there is significant 14 Table of Contents competition for direct sales professionals with the skills and technical knowledge that we require, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. Our ability to achieve significant future revenue growth will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they become fully productive, and may not become as productive as quickly as we anticipate. Our growth prospects will be harmed if our efforts to expand, train and retain our direct sales team do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. In addition to our direct sales team, we also extend our global sales distribution through relationships with more than 50 marketing service providers. These providers do not have exclusive relationships with us, and we cannot be certain that these partners will prioritize or provide adequate resources for selling our solutions. Establishing and retaining qualified partners and training them in our solutions requires significant time and resources. If we are unable to devote sufficient time and resources to establish and train these partners, or if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to sustain or manage any future growth effectively. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, sell our digital marketing solutions successfully and adequately address competitive challenges. As a result, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may suffer. In recent periods, we have significantly expanded the size and scope of our business. Our future growth prospects depend in large part on our ability to sell our SaaS solutions to the enterprise customer base, our ability to add direct sales personnel and expand our network of business partners, agencies and marketing service providers, cross-sell and up-sell new solutions and services to existing customers, and strengthen our SaaS solutions and our ability to manage our growing business effectively. Growing our business will place significant demands on our team, infrastructure and operations. Our success will depend on our ability to manage such growth effectively. We intend to expand our overall business, customer base, number of employees, and operations, and to expand our operations internationally. Managing a large, diverse, and geographically dispersed customer base and workforce will require substantial management effort, and significant additional investment in our team, technology, and infrastructure. In order to support and sustain our growth, we will have to continue to improve our technology and our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting procedures, and all of these investments will increase our costs. Furthermore, we have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, or if we are unable to execute our growth strategy effectively or to manage any future growth we may experience, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan, sell our digital marketing solutions successfully, remain competitive, maintain customer relationships or attract new customers. Our failure to effectively sustain or manage any future growth we do experience could result in a reduction in our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our operating results and revenue will be adversely affected if we are not able to attract new customers, retain existing customers or sell additional functionality and services to existing customers. To grow our business, we must attract new customers and retain and sell additional solutions and services to existing customers. Many of our subscription agreements do not automatically renew at the end of their terms. As the digital marketing industry matures and as competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated competitive products or services, our ability to effectively compete with respect to pricing, technology, functionality, services and support could be impaired. In such an event, we may be 15 Table of Contents unable to attract new customers or renew our agreements with existing customers on favorable or comparable terms to prior periods. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict new subscriptions or subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. These events and developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and other operating results. Because our long-term growth strategy involves further expansion of our sales to customers outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. A key component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customer base internationally. In recent years, we have added direct sales personnel in Europe, Latin America, and Australia, and opened offices in London, Buenos Aires, and Sydney. As we continue to expand the sales of our solutions to customers outside the United States, our business will be increasingly susceptible to risks associated with international operations. Among the risks and challenges we believe are most likely to affect us with respect to international expansion are: •difficulties and expenses associated with the continued adaptation of our solutions for international markets, including translation into foreign languages; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, real estate, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; •burdens of complying with applicable laws and regulations, including regional data privacy laws and anti-bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •in some countries, a less-developed set of rules and infrastructure for online and mobile communications; •our ability to secure local communications and data center services and to successfully deliver communications to international ISPs and mobile carriers; •adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash; •currency exchange rate fluctuations; •difficulties in enforcing contracts; •difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems; •trade restrictions; •laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general preferences for local vendors; •lesser degrees of intellectual property protection; •political instability or terrorist activities; •legal systems subject to undue influence or corruption; and •business cultures in which improper sales practices may be prevalent. We have a limited operating history outside the United States, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business. In addition, we have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions and services abroad, which increases the risk that our future expansion efforts will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international 16 Table of Contents operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business, operating results and reputation will be adversely affected. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish operations in other countries will result in adequate revenue and profitability levels. Shifts over time in the mix of sizes or types of organizations that purchase our solutions or changes in the types of solutions purchased by our customers could negatively affect our operating results. Our strategy is to sell our cross-channel, digital marketing solutions to organizations of all sizes, but to focus on selling our SaaS solutions, such as Lyris HQ, to large and enterprise customers, with small and medium businesses being covered by our agencies and marketing service providers. Our profit margins can vary depending on numerous factors, including the number of customers using our SaaS solutions, the number of customers using our legacy products, complexity and frequency of their use, the level of utilization, the volume of messages sent, the amount of stored data and the level of professional services and support required by a customer. For example, if we are not successful in a smooth migration of customers using our legacy products to Lyris HQ, we could lose customers or fail to maximize profits resulting from customers who continue to use our legacy products rather than our newest offering. In addition, we will have to use resources to continue to support our customers who use our legacy products. Because our professional services offerings typically have a higher cost of revenue than subscriptions to our SaaS solutions, any increase in sales of professional services may have an adverse effect on our overall gross profit margin and operating results. Enterprise organizations generally require more professional services compared to small businesses and medium-sized companies and, as a result, the overall margin for our enterprise engagements may be lower. We supplement our internal professional services team with third parties to provide professional services, and our goal is to expand these relationships over time. We also will need to increase our sales reach and add direct sales personnel to sell our SaaS solutions to new customers. If the mix of organizations that purchase our solutions changes, or the mix of solution components purchased by our customers changes, our profit margins could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. As the number of enterprise customers that we serve increases, we may encounter implementation challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex engagements, which would harm our business and operating results. We may face unexpected challenges with some enterprise customers or more complicated implementations of our solutions with such customers. It may be difficult or expensive to implement our solutions if a customer has unexpected data, hardware or software technology challenges, or complex or unanticipated business requirements. In addition, prospective enterprise customers may require acceptance testing related to implementation of our solutions. Implementation delays may also require us to delay revenue recognition until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation could cause customers to delay or forego future purchases of our solutions, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We have been dependent on our customers' use of email as a channel for digital marketing, and any decrease in the use of email for this purpose would harm our business, growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. Historically, our customers have used our digital marketing solutions primarily for email-based digitial marketing to consumers who have given our customers permission to send them emails. We expect that email will continue to be the primary digital marketing channel used by our customers for the foreseeable future. Should our customers lose confidence in the value or effectiveness of email 17 Table of Contents marketing, or if other interactive channels are perceived to be more effective than email marketing, the demand for our solutions may decline. A number of factors could adversely affect our customers' assessment of the value or effectiveness of email marketing, including continual growth in the number of emails consumers receive on a daily basis, the inability of internet service providers ("ISPs") to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or "spam," from overwhelming consumers' inboxes, security concerns regarding viruses, worms or similar problems affecting internet and email utilization and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by ISPs that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. The market for cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions is relatively new and emerging. If the market develops more slowly or differently than we expect, our business, growth prospects and financial condition would be adversely affected. The market for cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions, such as ours, is relatively new and may not achieve or sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. While email has been used successfully for digital marketing for several years, marketing through new digital marketing channels, such as mobile and social media is not as well established, and revenue from email represents a substantial majority of our total revenues. The future growth of our business depends both on the acceptance and expansion of emerging digital marketing channels, as well as the continued use and growth of existing digital marketing channels, including email. Even if digital marketing through these channels becomes widely adopted, our existing customers may choose not to use our solutions, and we may not acquire new customers. Organizations may not make significant investments in cross-channel, digital marketing solutions and may not purchase SaaS solutions to address their digital marketing needs. If cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions are not widely adopted, or the market for such SaaS solutions does not develop as we expect, our business, growth prospects, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Defects or errors in our digital marketing solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. Our cross-channel, digital marketing solutions are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, which may cause disruptions in availability or other performance problems that could include prolonged down-time. Any such errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems, whether in connection with day-to-day operations, bug fixes, upgrades or otherwise, could be costly for us to remedy, damage our customers' businesses and harm our reputation. In addition, if we have any such errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems, our customers could terminate their agreements, elect not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment, or make claims against us. Any of these actions could result in lost business, increased insurance costs, difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and costly litigation. Such errors, defects or other problems could also result in reduced sales or a loss of or delay in the market acceptance of our solutions. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with our solutions, our implementation and integration of our solutions or our professional services. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers and meet their business needs. If a customer is unsatisfied with our solutions and services, we could lose the customer, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, or the profitability of our relationship with that customer may be impaired. In addition, negative publicity resulting from issues related to our customer relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new customers and maintain and expand our relationships with existing customers. 18 Table of Contents In addition, supporting enterprise customers could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel, which could strain our team and infrastructure, and reduce our profit margins. If we are unable to address the needs of these customers in a timely fashion or further develop and enhance our solutions, these customers may seek to terminate their relationships with us, not renew their subscriptions, renew their subscriptions on less favorable terms or not purchase additional features or solutions. If any of these were to occur, our revenue may decline, we may not realize future growth and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could harm our operating results. Since 2009, we have acquired Cogent Online PTY Ltd. and Robinsonscalvini Limited. In the future we may acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing solutions, expand our customer base and operations worldwide, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. We have limited experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, we may not achieve the synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or limitations on our ability to use cookies may impede our ability to collect information with our technology and may reduce the value of the data that we do collect. Our technology currently uses cookies, which are small files of information placed on an internet user's computer, to collect information about the user's visits to the websites of our customers. Third-party software and our own technology make it easy for users to block or delete our cookies. Several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, block our cookies by default or prompt users to delete or block our cookies. If a large proportion of users delete or block our cookies, this could undermine the value of the data that we collect for our customers and could negatively impact our ability to deliver accurate reports to our customers, which would harm our business. Changes in web browsers may also encourage users to block cookies. Microsoft, for example, frequently modifies its Internet Explorer web browser. Some modifications by Microsoft could substantially impair our ability to use cookies for data collection purposes. If that happens and we are unable to adapt our technology and practices adequately in response to changes in Microsoft's technology, then the value of our services will be substantially impaired. Additionally, other technologies could be developed that impede the operation of our services. These developments could prevent us from providing our services to our customers or reduce the value of our services. 19 Table of Contents In addition, laws regulating the use of cookies by us and our customers could also prevent us from providing our services to our customers or require us to employ alternative technology. A European Union directive implemented by member countries requires us to tell users about cookies placed on their computers, describe how we and our customers will use the information collected and offer users the right to refuse a cookie. Although no European country currently requires consent prior to delivery of a cookie, one or more European countries may do so in the future. If we were required to obtain consent before delivering a cookie or if the use or effectiveness of cookies is limited, we would be required to switch to alternative technologies to collect user profile information, which may not be done on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost or at all. Moreover, laws in the areas of privacy and behavioral tracking are likely to be passed in the future, which could result in significant limitations on or changes to the way in which we can collect, use, store or transmit users' personal information and deliver products and services. The standards that private entities use to regulate the use of email have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our solutions and our ability to conduct business. Our customers rely on email to communicate with their customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain "blacklists" of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals, who do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company's internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any internet domain or internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity's service or purchases its blacklist. From time to time, some of our internet protocol addresses may become listed with one or more blacklisting entities due to the messaging practices of our customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our on-demand software and services and communicate with our customers and, because we fulfill email delivery on behalf of our customers, could undermine the effectiveness of our customers' email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Evolving domestic and international data privacy regulations may restrict our customers' ability to solicit, collect, process, disclose and use personal information or may increase the costs of doing so, which could harm our business. Federal, state and foreign governments and supervising authorities have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing, disclosure, or use of consumers' personal information. Evolving regulations regarding personal data and personal information, in the European Union and elsewhere, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business. Such laws and regulations require or may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit consumers to access, correct or delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security incidents that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, impose additional requirements and prohibit the use of specific technologies, such as those that track individuals' activities on web pages or record when individuals click on a link contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our customers' ability to collect and use email addresses, web browsing data and personal information, which may 20 Table of Contents reduce demand for our solutions. Changing industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of data may have similar effects. Existing and future privacy and data protection laws and increasing sensitivity of consumers to unauthorized disclosures and use of personal information may also negatively affect the public's perception of digital marketing, including marketing practices of our customers. If our solutions are perceived to cause, or are otherwise unfavorably associated with, invasions of privacy, whether or not illegal, we or our customers may be subject to public criticism. Public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may also cause some consumers to be less likely to visit our customers' websites or otherwise interact with our customers, which could limit the demand for our solutions and inhibit the growth of our business. Any failure to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws, regulations, policies and standards or any inability to adequately address privacy concerns associated with our solutions, even if unfounded, could subject us to liability, damage our reputation, impair our sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs to our customers of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations, policies and standards may limit adoption of and demand for our solutions. If we fail to respond to evolving technological requirements or to introduce adequate enhancements and new features, our solutions could become obsolete or less competitive. To remain a leading provider of cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions, we must continue to invest in research and development of new solutions and enhancements to our existing solutions. The process of developing new technologies, products and services is complex and expensive. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, standards, regulations and customer requirements and frequent product enhancements and introductions. The introduction of new solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of competitive solutions based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our solutions obsolete or less effective. In addition, other means of digital marketing may be developed or adopted in the future, and our solutions may not be compatible with these new marketing channels. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new solution or feature that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to anticipate customer requirements, successfully develop or acquire new solutions or features in a timely manner or enhance our existing solutions to meet our customers' requirements, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Failures of the third-party hardware, software and infrastructure on which we rely, including third-party data center hosting facilities, could impair the delivery of our solutions and adversely affect our business. We rely on hardware and infrastructure, which is purchased or leased, and software licensed from third parties, to offer our cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions and related professional services. For example, we rely on bandwidth providers, ISPs, mobile providers and social networks to deliver messages to consumers on behalf of our customers. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware, software or infrastructure could result in errors, interruptions or a failure of our SaaS solutions. Furthermore, this hardware, software and infrastructure may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use any of this hardware, software or infrastructure could limit access to our SaaS solutions. We currently serve our customers from five third-party data center hosting facilities located in California (Milpitas, Fremont, Emeryville, and Sunnyvale) and Maidenhead, U.K., with backup data storage provided remotely by Iron Mountain requiring data recovery. Although our network infrastructure is generally redundant in each of our data centers, our data storage and operational capabilities are not fully redundant across data centers. The owners and operators of these facilities do not guarantee that 21 Table of Contents our customers' access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and such facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a tornado, earthquake, fire, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar catastrophic events. They also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. If for any reason our arrangement with one or more of the third-party data centers we use is terminated, we could incur additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support. In addition, the failure of the data centers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in the availability of our SaaS solutions or impair the functionality of our SaaS solutions, which could adversely affect our business. Errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with the delivery of our solutions may reduce our revenue, harm our reputation and brand and adversely affect our contract renewals and our ability to attract new customers. In addition, some of our customer agreements require us to issue credits for downtime in excess of certain thresholds, and in some instances give our customers the ability to terminate the agreements in the event of significant amounts of downtime. Our business, growth prospects and operating results will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers are not confident that our solutions are reliable. As we add data centers and increase capacity in data centers to accommodate increased demand, our costs and expenses associated with these efforts may adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If our security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not secure, customers may curtail or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of customer and consumer data, and security incidents could result in unauthorized access to, loss of or unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, that could damage our reputation, impair our sales and harm our business. Cyberattacks and other malicious internet-based activity continue to increase, and platform providers of digital marketing services have been targeted. Our security measures and the contractual restraints we maintain to prevent our customers from loading sensitive health, personal and financial information into our SaaS solution may not be sufficient to prevent the storage of such information on our systems or to prevent our systems from being compromised. We do not regularly monitor or review the content that our customers upload and store and, therefore, do not control the substance of the content within our hosted environment. If customers use our cross-channel, digital marketing solutions for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable information and our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee or customer error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation and our business could be harmed and we could incur significant liability. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our customer base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems or gain unauthorized access to our customers' data. If we do not meet customers' expectations with respect to security and confidentiality, our reputation could be seriously damaged and our ability to retain customers and attract new business could be harmed. Many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. In addition, some of our customers contractually require notification of any data security compromise. Security compromises experienced by our 22 Table of Contents competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to scale our infrastructure quickly enough to meet our customers' growing needs and, even if we can, our operations may be disrupted or our operating results could be harmed. As usage of our cross-channel, SaaS digital marketing solutions grows and as customers use our solutions for more advanced digital marketing programs, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our application architecture and our infrastructure to maintain our solutions' performance. Any failure of or delays in our systems could cause service interruptions or impaired system performance. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to customers, result in decreased sales to new customers and lower renewal rates by existing customers, which could hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. We also may need to expand our hosting operations at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. This would involve spending substantial amounts to purchase or lease data center capacity and equipment, upgrade our technology and infrastructure and introduce new SaaS solutions. Similarly, our international expansion efforts could require us to use data centers located outside the United States. We may not be able to scale our existing systems in a manner that is satisfactory to our existing or prospective customers. In addition, any such expansion will require management time and support, could be expensive and complex, could result in inefficiencies, unsuccessful data transfers or operational failures, could reduce our margins and could adversely impact our financial results. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding our information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all. We have a recent history of losses, and we may not return to or sustain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $2.7 million for fiscal 2010, $7.0 million for fiscal 2011 and $10.5 million for fiscal 2012. In recent years, we have made substantial investments in research and development, infrastructure, international expansion and acquisitions to support anticipated future revenue growth. In the past, we have not been in compliance with our liquidity covenant under our credit agreement with Comerica Bank (the "Bank") and we may not be in compliance with the liquidity covenant or other financial covenants in our credit agreement in the future. We expect to continue to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may make it difficult for us to return to profitability. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, such revenue growth may not be indicative of our future performance, and may not be sustainable. We may not be able to increase revenue in future periods, and our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We may incur significant losses in the future for many reasons, including due to the risks described in this Annual Report. 23 Table of Contents We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to many factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: •changes in spending on digital marketing technologies by our current or prospective customers; •the volume of utilization above contracted levels for a particular quarter and the amount of any associated additional revenue earned; •customer renewal rates, and the pricing and volume commitments at which agreements are renewed; •customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; •budgeting cycles of our customers; •changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or customers; •long or delayed implementation times for new customers; •the amount and timing of operating expenses, particularly research and development and sales and marketing expenses (including commissions and bonuses associated with performance), unforeseen product execution costs, employee benefit expenses and expenses related to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; •changes in the levels of our capital expenditures; •seasonality; •the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training and integrating new employees; and •failure to successfully manage any acquisitions or the incurrence of write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities in connection with acquisitions. We may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future subscriptions, revenue and expenses and, as a result, our operating results may fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Because we recognize subscription revenue from our customers over the terms of their agreements and most of the costs associated with those agreements are incurred up front, rapid increases in new customers and expanding sales to existing customers may cause an adverse impact on our short-term operating income and cash flows and may cause our operating results to be difficult to predict. The majority of our subscription revenue in a quarter is derived from customer agreements entered into in previous quarters. Significant selling activity in a quarter may result in little incremental recognized revenue and customer cash receipts during that quarter, but results in the recognition of 24 Table of Contents related commissions and sales and company bonuses due to immediate expense recognition. In addition, it takes several months to ramp up a professional services consultant to full productivity and, as a result, we generally must increase our professional services capacity ahead of the recognition of associated professional services revenue, which can result in lower margins in a period of significant hiring. The timing of revenue and expense recognition and associated cash flows may result in an adverse impact on our short-term operating income and cash flows and may also make it more difficult to accurately predict current quarter operating results. The resulting variations in our operating income, earnings per share, cash flows from operating activities and other financial metrics and non-financial metrics could harm the price of our common stock if they do not meet the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming and expensive, which could harm our business and operating results. Our sales efforts involve educating prospective customers and our existing customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our solutions. Some customers, particularly in the enterprise market, undertake a prolonged solution-evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our solutions but also those of our competitors. As we continue to pursue enterprise customers, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing such sales. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. It is also difficult to predict the level and timing of sales that come from our indirect sales channel of marketing service providers since these resellers do not exclusively sell our solutions. Events affecting our customers' businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers in the technology, retail, publishing, entertainment, non-profit and telecommunications industries, and any downturn in these industries could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in the technology, retail, publishing, entertainment, non-profit and telecommunications industries. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from agencies and marketing service providers. Any downturn in these industries may cause our customers to reduce their spending on digital marketing solutions, delay or cancel digital marketing projects or seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. Also, the increased pace of consolidation in any of these industries may result in reduced overall spending on our solutions. In particular, if our customers are acquired by entities that are not our customers, that use fewer of our solutions or that choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Uncertain or weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends on domestic and worldwide economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us. The U.S. economy and other key international economies have been impacted by threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our digital marketing solutions and services, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions or affect renewal rates, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. We 25 Table of Contents cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic recovery or any subsequent economic slowdown worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team and other key employees, including in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. For example, in the last two fiscal years, we have experienced significant turnover in our management team and many of our current executive officers and key employees are new to Lyris. As a result, we may face challenges in effectively managing our operations during this period of transition. If new key employees and other members of our senior management team cannot work together effectively, or if other members of our senior management team resign, our ability to effectively manage our business may be impacted. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing development professionals because of the complexity of our solutions. We may terminate any executive officer's employment at any time, with or without cause, and any executive officer may resign at any time, with or without cause. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of any of our key employees could harm our business. Because competition for key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly-skilled employees we need to support our operations and future growth. Competition for executive officers, software developers and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the professionals we need. Job candidates and existing employees often consider the actual and potential value of the equity awards they receive as part of their overall compensation. Thus, if the perceived value or future value of our stock declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees may be adversely affected. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. Any violation of our policies or misuse of our digital marketing solutions by our customers could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. Our customers could misuse our digital marketing solutions by, among other things, transmitting negative messages or website links to harmful applications, sending unsolicited commercial email, reproducing and distributing copyrighted material without permission, reporting inaccurate or fraudulent data and engaging in illegal activity. Any such use of our digital marketing solutions could damage our reputation and could subject us to claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers may use our digital marketing solutions to promote their products and services in violation of federal, state and foreign laws. We rely on contractual representations made to us by our customers that their use of our digital marketing solutions will comply with our policies and applicable law, including, without limitation, our Anti-Spam Policy. Although we retain the right to review customer lists and emails to verify that customers are abiding by our Anti-Spam Policy, our customers are ultimately responsible for compliance with our policies, and we do not audit our customers to confirm compliance with our policies. We cannot predict whether the use of our digital marketing solutions would expose us to liability under applicable laws or subject us to other regulatory action. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending against such claims, or our reputation may be damaged. If we are found liable in connection with our customers' activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign our digital marketing solutions or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. 26 Table of Contents Federal, state and foreign laws regulating email and text messaging marketing practices impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails and text messages, which could reduce the effectiveness of our solutions or increase our operating expenses to the extent these laws subject us to financial penalties. The Federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the "CAN-SPAM Act") regulates commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. Among other things, the CAN-SPAM Act obligates each sender of commercial emails to allow recipients to opt-out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email. In some cases, these laws are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act. For example, Utah and Michigan have enacted do-not-email registries to protect minors from receiving unsolicited commercial email marketing adult content and other products that minors are prohibited from obtaining. Whether such state laws are preempted in whole or in part by the CAN-SPAM Act is uncertain. Furthermore, some foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada and the European Union, have also enacted laws that regulate email. Some of these laws are more restrictive than U.S. laws. As internet commerce continues to evolve and grow, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments may become more likely. Federal, state or foreign jurisdictions may in the future enact laws or regulations restricting the ability to conduct digital marketing through mobile, social media and web channels. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses. We may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. If such restrictions require us to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, it could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or otherwise harm our business. Noncompliance with any existing or future laws and regulations may subject us to significant financial penalties. If we are found to have violated these laws or regulations or if our customers are found to have violated these laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and harm our reputation and our business. Regulation of the internet and the lack of certainty regarding the application of existing laws to the internet could substantially harm our operating results and business. We are subject to laws and regulations applicable to doing business over the internet. It is often not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the internet, as these laws have in some cases failed to keep pace with technological change. Recently-enacted laws governing the internet could also impact our business. For instance, existing and future regulations on taxing internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the internet and could diminish the viability of our services. Furthermore, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may censor, limit or block certain users' access to websites or other social media services. Changing industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and our business. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property, which may require us to incur significant costs. We rely on a combination of confidentiality obligations in contracts, patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and other contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In particular, we enter into 27 Table of Contents confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with all of our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have business relationships in which they will have access to our confidential information. No assurance can be given that these agreements or other steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our solutions and our confidential and proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized uses of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy our solutions and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Third parties may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our solutions may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our solutions and proprietary information may increase. In some cases, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and exposing us to significant damages or injunctions. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management's attention and resources, could delay sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting less-advanced or more-costly technologies into our solutions or harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new solutions, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We cannot be certain that any patents will be issued with respect to our current or potential patent applications. To date, we have no patent applications pending and one issued patent. We do not know whether any of our future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow the scope of our claims. To the extent any of our future applications proceed to issuance as a patent, any such future patent and our existing issued patent may be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around by a third party or found to be invalid or unenforceable. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive. Some of our technology is not covered by any patent or patent application. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in our industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. As a result, our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, we have received threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. 28 Table of Contents Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. Indemnity provisions in our subscription agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. In our customer agreements, we agree to indemnify our customers against any losses or costs incurred in connection with claims by a third party alleging that a customer's use of our services infringes the intellectual property rights of the third party. Companies in the software industry, including those that provide digital marketing solutions, frequently face infringement threats from non-practicing organizations (sometimes referred to as "patent trolls") filing lawsuits for patent infringement. In the past, we have been notified of claims brought against our customers for infringement by such a patent troll and have requested indemnification or indicated that they may seek redress from us under the indemnification provisions of our contracts with them. Other customers facing infringement claims who are accused of infringement may in the future seek indemnification from us under the terms of our contracts. If such claims are successful, or if we are required to indemnify or defend our customers from these or other claims, these matters could be disruptive to our business and management and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We use open source software in our solutions, which may subject us to litigation or other actions that could adversely affect our business. We use open source software in our solutions and may use more open source software in the future. In the past, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. If we were to use open source software subject to such licenses, we could be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales or take other remedial action, any of which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to integrate our solutions with certain third-party applications, the functionality of our solutions could be adversely affected. The functionality of our solutions depends on our ability to integrate them with third-party applications and data management systems used by our customers to obtain consumer data. In addition, we rely on access to third-party application programming interfaces ("APIs") to provide our social media channel offerings through social media platforms. Third-party providers of marketing applications and APIs may change the features of their applications and platforms, restrict our access to their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications and APIs and access to those applications and platforms in a manner adverse to us. Such changes could limit our ability to integrate or could prevent us from integrating our software with these third-party applications and platforms, which could impair the functionality of our software and harm our business. Further, if we fail to integrate our software with new third-party applications and platforms that our customers use 29 Table of Contents for marketing purposes, or if we fail to adapt to the data transfer requirements of such third-party applications and platforms, demand for our solutions could decrease, which would harm our business and operating results. Qualifying and supporting our digital marketing solutions on multiple computer platforms is time consuming and expensive. We devote time and resources to qualify and support our solutions on specific computer platforms, such as Microsoft operating systems. The pace at which existing platforms are being modified and new platforms are being adopted has increased rapidly over time. To the extent that existing platforms are modified or upgraded, or customers adopt new platforms, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources to qualify and support our solutions on such modified or new platforms, or we could lose customers to competitors who respond more quickly to platform changes, which could add significantly to our development expenses, decrease our revenues and adversely affect our operating results. The market forecasts included in this Annual Report may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you that our business will grow at similar rates, or at all. The market forecasts included in this Annual Report, including the forecasts by Forrester Research, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. This risk also applies to forecasts of anticipated spending on digital marketing channels. Market data and forecasts relating to international spending on digital marketing are even more limited than data for the U.S. market. If the forecasts of market growth or anticipated spending prove to be inaccurate, our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Even if the forecasted growth occurs, our business may not grow at a similar rate, or at all. Our future growth is subject to many factors, including our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, which itself is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, the forecasts and market data in this Annual Report should not be taken as indicative of our future growth. We may not be able to secure sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. In the future, we may require additional capital to pursue business opportunities or acquisitions or respond to challenges and unforeseen circumstances. We may also decide to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. As of June 30, 2012, we had $161.7 million of net operating loss carry-forwards. Utilization of these net operating loss carry-forwards depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. Our loss carry-forwards begin to expire in 2019. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. We have undergone one or more ownership changes as a result of prior financings. Future ownership changes, or future regulatory changes may limit our ability to utilize our 30 Table of Contents net operating loss carry-forwards. To the extent we are not be able to offset our future income against our net operating loss carry-forwards, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our customers, which could increase the costs of our solutions and adversely impact our business. The application of federal, state, local and international tax laws to services and products provided electronically is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and products provided over the internet or via email, which could discourage the use of the internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, adversely affecting the viability of our solutions. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately result in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines or penalties and interest for past amounts. If we are unsuccessful in collecting such taxes from our customers, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results and cash flows. Our internal controls and disclosure controls may not be adequate, and control deficiencies could be significant or could even be material weaknesses that could cause us to restate our financial statements or otherwise cause errors in our public reporting. Internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls for public disclosures generally are important to assure that financial and other information is reported accurately and in a timely fashion. Where control deficiencies are significant, we may be required to restate our financial statements or we may encounter errors in our public reporting. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, will be detected. In the past we have experienced control deficiencies that required us to reclassify as research and development expense amounts that had previously been classified as cost of revenues expense. Implementing new disclosure controls or internal controls requires specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, may entail substantial costs to modify existing accounting systems, and may take a significant period of time to complete. There can be no assurance that new disclosure controls or internal controls will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our controls. Failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in implementing or improving existing controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In the event that our disclosure controls or internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards may change or their interpretation may change. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even 31 Table of Contents affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change becomes effective. Changes to existing rules or the re-examining of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Accounting for revenue from sales of our solutions is particularly complex, is often the subject of intense scrutiny by the SEC, and will evolve as the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") continues to consider applicable accounting standards in this area. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. We rely heavily on our network infrastructure and information technology systems for our business operations. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a tornado, earthquake, fire, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in the delivery of our customers' digital marketing communications, reputational harm and loss of critical data or could prevent us from providing our digital marketing solutions to our customers. Our system hardware is co-located in five data centers operated by third parties in California (Milpitas, Fremont, Emeryville, and Sunnyvale) and Maidenhead, U.K. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of these data centers, or our network infrastructure or information technology systems, could affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. Our stock price has experienced high volatility, may continue to be volatile and may decline. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors described herein, these factors include: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results; •the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, our failure to meet any such guidance or any changes in analysts' recommendations; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of software or other technology companies, particularly companies in our industry; •the addition or loss of significant customers; •fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock or the size of our public float; •announcements by us with regard to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our ability to accurately report our financial results; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; •general economic, legal, regulatory and market conditions unrelated to our performance; •lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and •other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. 32 Table of Contents In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme fluctuations in price and trading volume that have caused and will likely continue to cause the stock prices of many technology companies to fluctuate in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of declining stock prices. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could face substantial costs and be forced to divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could adversely affect our business. The transfer restrictions on our common stock may delay or prevent stockholders from obtaining more than 5% of our common stock, may delay or prevent takeover bids by third parties, and may delay or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to replace or remove members of management. In order to protect our net operating loss carry-forwards, our common stock is subject to transfer restrictions that, unless waived by the Board, prevent any individual stockholder or group of stockholders from acquiring in excess of 5% of our outstanding common stock, within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The transfer restrictions will make it more difficult for stockholders to obtain more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. The types of acquisition transactions that we may undertake will also be limited unless our Board waives the transfer restrictions. The transfer restrictions will delay or frustrate stockholders who would like to replace current management because no single stockholder may cast votes for more than 5% of our outstanding shares of common stock, unless that stockholder already holds 5% of our common stock or our Board specifically authorizes the acquisition of more than 5% of our common stock. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that our stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as they will be in effect upon the closing of this offering, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •Our Board is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. •Our Board has the right to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member. •Our directors are not elected by cumulative voting; cumulative voting would allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates. •Advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting is required. •Our Board may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board, certain rights of which could be senior to those of our common stock. •Stockholders do not have the right to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting. •Approval of at least two thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors is required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, our amended and restated bylaws or the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors; and •Directors may be removed from office only for cause. 33 Table of Contents In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"). In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for three years following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A "business combination" includes, among other things, a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An "interested stockholder" is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or did own, within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status, 15% or more of a corporation's voting stock. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and the DGCL could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and could potentially result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it otherwise would be. Our certificate of incorporation also restricts any stock ownership that would cause a person or group of persons to be a five percent shareholder within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders collectively own approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock and will continue to have substantial control over the company. Our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 34 Table of Contents 