RISK FACTORS The following section describes risks and uncertainties that we believe may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risks. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, or for other reasons, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is substantially dependent on the market for email marketing. More than 80% of the Company’s revenues come from the email marketing market – from the licensing of software, the sale of support and maintenance contracts related to our software, and from the sale of hosted services. The remainder of our revenue, with the acquisitions of ClickTracks and Hot Banana, comes from Web analytics and content management. The markets for email marketing, web analytics, marketing content management and related services is relatively new and still evolving. There is no certainty regarding how or whether these markets will develop, or whether they will experience any contractions. Seasonal trends may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The traditional direct marketing industry has typically generated lower revenues during the summer months and higher revenues during the calendar year-end months. We believe our business may be affected by similar revenue fluctuations, but our limited operating history is insufficient to isolate and predict the magnitude of these effects. Because we may experience these effects, investors (and, possibly, securities analysts) may not be able to predict our quarterly or annual operating results. If we fail to meet expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. If businesses and consumers fail to accept online direct marketing as a means to attract new customers, demand for our services may not develop and the price of our stock could decline. The market for online direct marketing services is relatively new, rapidly evolving and our business may be harmed if sufficient demand for our services does not develop. Our current and planned services are very different from the traditional methods that many of our clients have historically used to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships. As a result, customers and potential customers may be reticent to try new technologies and new solutions, and the demand for our services may not develop or may decline, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results depend on consumer use of email and the Internet. If consumers do not continue to use email and the Internet, demand for our services may not develop and the price of our stock could decline. Our current and planned services enable customers to use email and the internet to increase revenue and traffic from, and communication with, their online audiences, customers and members. Our ability to serve these customers therefore depends on their audiences continuing to use both email and the Internet as communications media. If consumer adoption of either technology declines, demand for our services may not develop or may decline. 8 The growth of the email marketing market depends on the continued growth and effectiveness of anti-spam products. Adoption of email as a communications medium depends on the ability to prevent junk mail, or “spam”, from overwhelming a subscriber’s electronic mailbox. In recent years, many companies have evolved to address this issue and filter unwanted messages before they reach customers’ mailboxes. In response, spammers have become more sophisticated and have also begun using junk messages as a means for fraud. Email protection companies in turn have evolved to address this new threat. However, if their products fail to be effective against spam, adoption of email as a communications tool will decline, which would adversely affect the market for our services. The online direct marketing industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our services may decline. The market for online direct marketing is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and experiencing rapid technological change. Intense competition may result in price reductions, reduced sales, gross margins and operating margins, and loss of market share. Our principal competitors include providers of online direct marketing solutions such as DoubleClick, Responsys, Experian, Silverpop, Bigfoot Interactive, Exact Target, Constant Contact and InfoUSA, as well as the in-house information technology departments of our existing and prospective clients. The loss of a client due to service quality or technology problems could result in reputational harm to us and, as a result, increase the effect of competition and negatively impact our ability to attract new clients. Many of these potential competitors have broad distribution channels and they may bundle complementary products or services. Such bundled products include, but are not limited to, web analytics, data mining, customer relationship management (CRM) systems and professional services. If we are not able to bundle complementary services or continue to expand our distribution capabilities, our results may suffer. In addition, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our prices. In the future, we may experience competition from Internet service providers, advertising and direct marketing agencies and other large established businesses possessing large, existing customer bases, substantial financial resources and established distribution channels. These businesses could develop, market or resell a number of online direct marketing solutions. These potential competitors may also choose to enter, or have already entered, the market for online direct marketing by acquiring one of our existing competitors or by forming strategic alliances with a competitor. As a result of future competition, the demand for our services could substantially decline. Any of these occurrences could harm our ability to compete effectively. The email security business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for, or the prices of, our services may decline. Our email security business faces competition from businesses that develop their own anti-spam and other messaging security technology. These competitors vary from enterprise software vendors such as Oracle and SAP to online service providers who develop or bundle anti-spam, anti-virus and other messaging security technology with their other products such as Symantec and Network Associates. We also face competition from large enterprise network infrastructure and software vendors such as Cisco Systems and Microsoft as they diversify their product offerings. Many of these competitors have broad distribution channels and can bundle competing products or services. This competition poses a significant risk for us. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technology or evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in client requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products and services, or develop entirely new products and services, our products and services may become obsolete, less marketable or less competitive, and our business will be harmed. The ability to add new enhancements, new features and new services depends on several factors, including having sufficient financial, technical and human resources and completing such work in a timely fashion. Failure to produce timely acceptable new features will significantly impair our ability to retain existing revenue and earn new revenue. If we fail to market new features and migrate customers to new versions of our system, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. 9 The development of proprietary technology and service enhancements and the migration of customers to new technology entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial expenditures and lead-time. We might not be successful in marketing and supporting recently released versions of our technology and services on a timely or cost-effective basis. In addition, even if new technology and services are developed and released, they might not achieve market acceptance. Also, if we are not successful in a smooth migration of customers to new or enhanced technology and services, we could lose customers. We face significant threats from new entrants to our business. Barriers to entry in software markets are low. Privately-backed and public companies could choose to enter our space and compete directly with us, or indirectly by offering substitute solutions. The result could be decreased demand or pricing for our services, longer sales cycles, or a requirement to make significant incremental investments in research and development to match these entrants’ new technologies. If any of these happens, it could cause us to suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. The majority of our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, and if our customers elect not to renew these agreements, our revenues may decrease. Typically, our hosted services are sold pursuant to short-term subscription agreements, which are generally six months to one year in length, with no obligation to renew these agreements. Our renewal rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including the services and prices offered by our competitors, new technologies offered by others, consolidation in our customer base or if some of our customers cease their operations. If our renewal rates are low or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decrease, which could adversely affect our stock price. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products and services and cause us to lose customers. Because our products and services are complex, they may have errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them, which could harm our reputation and business. In particular, our anti-spam products may identify some legitimate emails as unwanted or unsolicited spam, or we may not be able to filter out a sufficiently high percentage of unsolicited or unwanted messages sent to the email accounts of customers. Complex software products like ours frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, we may be unable to respond in a prompt manner, or at all, to new methods of attacking a messaging system, such as new spamming techniques. We have from time to time found defects in products, and errors in existing products may be detected in the future. Any such errors, defects or other performance problems could impact the perceived reliability of our products and services and hurt our reputation. If that occurs, customers could elect not to renew or terminate their subscriptions and future sales could be lost. If the delivery of our email messages is limited or blocked, then the amount we may be able to charge clients for producing and sending their campaigns may be reduced and clients may discontinue their use of our services. Internet service providers are able to block messages from reaching their users. Recent releases of Internet service provider software and the implementation of stringent new policies by Internet service providers make it more difficult to deliver emails on behalf of customers. We continually improve our own technology and work with Internet service providers to improve our ability to successfully deliver emails. However, if Internet service providers materially limit or halt the delivery of our emails, or if we fail to deliver emails in such a way as to be compatible with these companies’ email handling or authentication technologies, then the amount we may be able to charge clients for producing and sending their online direct marketing campaigns may be reduced and clients may discontinue their use of our services. In addition, the effectiveness of email marketing may decrease as a result of increased customer resistance to email marketing in general. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected events and any of these events could result in an interruption of our ability to execute clients’ online direct marketing campaigns. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our data centers and hardware systems. The data centers and hardware systems are located in California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. The data centers and hardware systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. If any of these events results in damage to our data centers or systems, we may be unable to execute clients’ hosted online direct 10 marketing campaigns until the damage is repaired, and may accordingly lose clients and revenues. In addition, subject to applicable insurance coverage, we may incur substantial costs in repairing any damage. System failures could reduce the attractiveness of our service offerings. We provide email marketing and delivery services to our clients and end-users through our proprietary technology and client management systems. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of the technology and the underlying network infrastructure are critical to our operations, level of client service, reputation and ability to attract and retain clients. We have experienced periodic interruptions, affecting all or a portion of our systems, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. Any systems damage or interruption that impairs our ability to accept and fill client orders could result in an immediate loss of revenue to us, and could cause some clients to purchase services offered by our competitors. In addition, frequent systems failures could harm our reputation. Some factors that could lead to interruptions in customer service include: operator negligence; improper operation by, or supervision of, employees; physical and electronic break-ins; misappropriation; computer viruses and similar events; power loss; computer systems failures; and Internet and telecommunications failures. We do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to fully compensate us for losses that may occur. If we are unable to safeguard the confidential information in our data warehouse, our reputation may be harmed and we may be exposed to liability. We currently store confidential customer information in a secure data warehouse owned by a third party. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to prevent unauthorized individuals from gaining access to this data warehouse. If any compromise or breach of security were to occur, it could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. Any unauthorized access to our servers could result in the misappropriation of confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our services. It is also possible that one of our employees could attempt to misuse confidential customer information, exposing us to liability. In addition, our reputation may be harmed if we lose customer information maintained in our data warehouse due to systems interruptions or other reasons. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if third parties develop superior intellectual property, third parties could use our intellectual property without our consent and prevent us from using their technology. Our ability to successfully compete is substantially dependent upon internally developed technology and intellectual property, which we protect through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law, as well as contractual obligations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use our proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We are one of several companies rapidly building new technologies in this industry. It is possible that a third party could be awarded a patent that applies to some portion of our business. If this occurs, we may be required to incur substantial legal fees, cease using the technology or pay significant licensing fees for such use. We are aware of several patents that may be asserted against us. We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products ,and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to sell or continue to support subscriptions to our products and services would be limited and our operating results could be harmed. We rely on non-exclusive software license rights from third parties in technologies that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of our products. Our licenses often require the payment of royalties or other consideration to third parties. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies, and we do not know whether these third-party technologies will continue to be licensed to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our loss of license to, or the inability to support, maintain and enhance, software products we license from third parties could result in our customers having to upgrade their Lyris or EmailLabs products. In addition, a loss of license from third parties could lead to increased costs and delays or reductions in our product development, sales and support until we are able to develop functionally equivalent software or identify and obtain licenses to alternative third party software with comparable functionality, which we may be unable to do. As a result, our margins, market share and operating results could be significantly harmed. If any of these events occurs, our business and operating results could be harmed. 11 If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be adversely affected. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that we are infringing their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all. Because currently pending patent applications are not publicly available for certain periods of time, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a general matter, we do not search patent office files for patents or patent applications that we may possibly infringe. We are aware of several patents that may be asserted against us. From time to time we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that we have, in some way, violated the intellectual property rights of others. Existing lawsuits in this area, as well as any future assertions or prosecutions of claims like these, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. The defense of any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause product enhancement delays or require that we develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We expect that the number of infringement claims in our market will increase as the number of services and competitors in our industry grows. These claims, whether or not successful, could: · divert management’s attention; · result in costly and time-consuming litigation; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all; or · require us to redesign our software and services to avoid infringement. As a result, any third-party intellectual property claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our subscription agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling in any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management time. Activities of clients could damage our reputation or give rise to legal claims against us. Clients’ promotion of their products and services may not comply with federal, state and local laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these marketing activities would expose us to liability under these laws. Any claims made against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. If we are exposed to this kind of liability, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign business methods, discontinue some services or otherwise expend resources to avoid liability. Our services involve the transmission of information through the Internet. These services could be used to transmit harmful applications, negative messages, unauthorized reproduction of copyrighted material, inaccurate data or computer viruses to end-users in the course of delivery. Any transmission of this kind could damage our reputation or could give rise to legal claims against us. We could spend a significant amount of time and money defending against these legal claims. Regulation of, and uncertainties regarding the application of existing laws and regulations to, online direct marketing and the Internet could prohibit, limit or increase the cost of our business. In December 2003, Congress enacted the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, which regulates the sending of commercial email and pre-empts state laws regulating commercial email. The effect of this legislation on marketers is difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that this or future legislation regarding commercial email will not harm our business. In addition, many states have passed laws that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than CAN-SPAM, particularly Utah and Michigan. It is not clear to what extent these state laws will in fact be preempted by CAN-SPAM. 12 Our business could be negatively impacted by new laws or regulations applicable to online direct marketing or the Internet or the application of existing laws and regulations to online direct marketing or the Internet. There is a growing body of laws and regulations applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws is uncertain and may take years to resolve. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is likely that additional laws and regulations will be adopted covering issues such as privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, taxation, antitrust, characteristics and quality of services and consumer protection. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may impair the growth of the Internet or online direct marketing, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our services and prohibit, limit or increase the cost of our doing business. We have acquired all our operating businesses since May 2005, and we may continue to expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies or through business relationships, all of which may divert our management’s attention, resulting in additional dilution to our stockholders and consumption of resources that are necessary to sustain our business. One of our business strategies is to acquire competing or complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our service offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other companies. Our completed acquisitions and any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities, nor can we assure you that we will be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may: · issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; · use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; · incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; · incur large charges or substantial liabilities; · encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; · become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; and · encounter unfavorable reactions from investment banking market analysts who disapprove of our completed acquisitions. Failure to properly manage and sustain our expansion efforts could strain our management and other resources. Our ability to successfully offer services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We may try to rapidly and significantly expand the depth and breadth of our service offerings. Failure to properly manage this expansion could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage expansion, we are required to continually: · improve existing and implement new operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; · install new management information systems; and · train, motivate, retain and manage our employees. 13 We may be unable to install management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To continue to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the new requirement to expense stock options may discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option awards that job candidates require in order to join the Company. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Any failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers and to manage our customer relationships. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend in large part on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. If we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel, sales of our service will suffer. If we fail to develop our brands cost-effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our current and future services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our brands will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brands, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Widespread blocking or erasing of cookies or limitations on our ability to use cookies may impede our ability to collect information with our technology and reduce the value of that data. Our technology currently uses cookies, which are small files of information placed on an Internet user’s computer, to collect information about the user’s visits to the websites of our customers. Third-party software and our own technology make it easy for users to block or delete our cookies. Several software programs, sometimes marketed as ad-ware or spyware detectors, block our cookies by default or prompt users to delete or block our cookies. If a large proportion, such as a majority, of users delete or block our cookies, this could undermine the value of the data that we collect for our customers and could negatively impact our ability to deliver accurate reports to our customers, which would harm our business. Changes in web browsers may also encourage users to block our cookies. Microsoft, for example, frequently modifies its Internet Explorer web browser. Some modifications by Microsoft could substantially impair our ability to use cookies for data collection purposes. If that happens and we are unable to adapt our technology and practices adequately in response to changes in Microsoft’s technology, then the value of our services will be substantially impaired. Additionally, 14 other technologies could be developed that impede the operation of our services. These developments could prevent us from providing our services to our customers or reduce the value of our services. In addition, laws regulating the use of cookies by us and our customers could also prevent us from providing our services to our customers or require us to employ alternative technology. A European Union Directive currently being implemented by member countries requires us to tell users about cookies placed on their computers, describe how we and our customers will use the information collected and offer users the right to refuse a cookie. Although no European country currently requires consent prior to delivery of a cookie, one or more European countries may do so in the future. If we were required to obtain consent before delivering a cookie or if the use or effectiveness of cookies is limited, we would be required to switch to alternative technologies to collect user profile information, which may not be done on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost or at all. We may not realize expected benefits from our acquisitions. We expect our acquisitions to result in additional net revenues for the Company. Achieving the benefits of these acquisitions will depend in part on our demonstration to customers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in client service standards. With respect to the integration of personnel, despite our efforts to retain the key employees of acquired businesses, we may not be successful, as competition for qualified management and technical employees in our industry is intense. We may also be perceived to have a different corporate culture and these key employees may not want to work for a larger, publicly-traded company. In addition, competitors may recruit these key employees. As a result, these key employees could leave with little or no prior notice, which could impede the integration process and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In connection with these acquisitions certain key employees have entered into employment agreements or consulting and non-competition agreements that will restrict their ability to compete with us if they leave or at the conclusion of their consulting term. We cannot assure you of the enforceability of these non-competition agreements or that these employees or consultants will continue to work with us under their employment or consulting agreements. Exposure to risks associated with our international operations could unfavorably affect our performance. We recently completed the acquisition of Hot Banana, which is based in Ontario, Canada and which has significant revenues there. The success and profitability of these international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, tax laws and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which Hot Banana’s business may be denominated. Specifically with currency risks, we do not currently utilize derivative instruments to hedge an exposure to fluctuation in foreign currency, including the Canadian dollar, and our revenues may decrease as a result of such fluctuations. Our operating subsidiaries are relatively young companies with limited histories of operating results. Our operating subsidiaries are both relatively young companies with no long-term history of developing their internal management and administration processes. If either cannot continue to develop these internal processes, its long-term results may suffer. We may need to raise additional capital to achieve our business objectives, which could result in dilution to existing investors or increase our debt obligations. We may require additional capital to fund our business. If capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our products, the ability to expand our client base and the growth of sales and marketing. Additional financing may not be available when needed, on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which would harm our operating results and adversely affect our ability to sustain profitability. See Note 19 on our proposed rights offering and bridge loan. 15 Money Borrowed to Fund Acquisitions We borrowed money to purchase EmailLabs, ClickTracks, and Hot Banana. (Lyris was purchased with cash on hand.). We borrowed from Comerica, N.A. and from LDN Stuyvie Partnership. Copies of our agreements with these lenders have been filed with the Securities and Exchange and are also described elsewhere herein. (See Notes 6 and 19). Our agreements with these lenders place certain restrictions on us, including restrictions on our total borrowings, our debt to EBITDA ratios, and our ability to buy additional businesses, among other restrictions. Future Earn-out Payments Each of our four acquisitions we have made requires us to make additional earn-out payments to the sellers of the businesses if certain conditions are met. Copies of the acquisition agreements have been filed with the SEC and are discussed elsewhere herein. (See Notes 6, 11 and 19). We believe that some of these conditions are likely to be met, and, therefore, have classified specified earn-outs on our balance sheet as short-term or long-term debt. Our principal use of cash in the future will be the payment of earn-outs and the pay down of debt. Based on its current projections, the Company believes that it will be able to make these payments with its available resources. If however, operating results deteriorate or other adverse events occur, the Company will not have adequate resources to make these payments. The Company may be forced to seek additional resources and the cost of these resources, if available at all, may be prohibitive. Risks related to our Company and Investment in our Common Stock Internet-related stock prices are especially volatile, and this volatility may depress our stock price or cause it to fluctuate significantly. The stock market and the trading prices of Internet-related companies in particular, have been notably volatile. This volatility is likely to continue in the short-term and is not necessarily related to the operating performance of affected companies. This broad market and industry volatility could significantly reduce the price of our common stock at any time, without regard to our operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price in particular to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations by others or us; · acceptance by consumers of technologies of companies other than us; · the ability to sign new clients and the retention of existing clients; · new products or services that we offer; · competitive developments including new products or services, or new relationships by our competitors; · changes that affect our clients or the viability of their product lines; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries; · global unrest and terrorist activities; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other Internet or online e-commerce companies; · required changes in generally accepted accounting principles and disclosures; · our announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments or results of operations or other developments related to those acquisitions; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · sales or other transactions involving our common stock. 16 Our executive officers and directors have control over our affairs. As of June 30, 2006, our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 40% of our common stock. As a group they control and they will likely be able to continue to control our business. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. See Note 19 on our proposed rights offering and bridge loan. We are a small company without securities analyst coverage at the present time and there is limited trading of our stock. Trading markets for common stock rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts would publish about us or our business. Currently, no securities analysts cover our stock. As a result, we lack visibility in the market. In addition, if one or more analysts initiate coverage with an unattractive rating, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. There is also little liquidity in the trading of our stock and therefore it may be more difficult for investors to sell common stock in our company. Sales of large blocks of stock may have a significantly greater negative impact because of the lack of liquidity. The stock transfer restrictions implemented in the merger of NAHC, Inc. and J. L. Halsey Corporation may delay or prevent takeover bids by third parties and may delay or frustrate any attempt by stockholders to replace or remove the current management. The shares of common stock issued by the Company in the merger are subject to transfer restrictions that, in general, prevent any individual stockholder or group of stockholders from acquiring in excess of 5% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. The types of acquisition transactions that the Company may undertake therefore will be limited unless the board of directors waives the transfer restrictions. The transfer restrictions also may make it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management because no single stockholder may cast votes for more than 5% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, unless that stockholder held more than 5% of our common stock before the merger. We may not be able to realize the benefits of our NOL carryforwards. Our ability to use our potential tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If Lyris and EmailLabs generate insufficient taxable income in future years, the NOLs will not be needed or used and therefore will provide no benefit to the Company. If the Company experiences a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will not be able to realize the benefit of its net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit carryforwards. There are uncertainties related to legacy assets and liabilities. The Company continues to manage a relatively small number of legacy assets and liabilities remaining from the period prior to the sale of its operating businesses in 1999. These remaining legacy assets consist of restricted cash, old receivables that are the subject of litigation or arbitration, and appeals of Medicare related claims. The Company has established significant reserves against these assets because of the uncertainty regarding our ability to collect on these assets. The Company is defending one remaining lawsuit against us. Our management believes that we should prevail in this case. However, there is uncertainty and cost related to the claims. The outcome of this matter is not possible to predict and the current reserves include only estimates of the costs of litigating, but do not reflect the possibility of a settlement, an adverse ruling or a judgment against the Company. For more information regarding this lawsuit, please see Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. 17 In addition to the provisions to protect our NOLs, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: · establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; · provide that directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of 66 2/3% of our stockholders; · require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation; · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; · provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that the businesses which we have acquired did not incur as private companies. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC require changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial costs. New accounting standards or interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, the PCAOB and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize software license revenue in accordance with Statement of Position, or SOP 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as amended by SOP 98-9, “Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions.” The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the SEC continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements. As a result of future interpretations or applications of existing accounting standards, including SOP 97-2 and SOP 98-9, by regulators or our internal or independent accountants, we could be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which would adversely affect our operating results. Certain factors have in the past and may in the future cause us to defer recognition for license fees beyond delivery. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we may accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) (SFAS No. 123R), “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS No. 123 (R) replaces SFAS No. 123,” Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123 for fair value. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values and prohibits pro forma disclosure as an alternative to financial statement recognition. SFAS No. 123(R) became effective and was adopted by the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) has had an impact on our financial statements. 18 In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” (“SFAS No. 157”). This Statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This Statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments” (“SFAS No. 155”) which amends SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (SFAS No. 133”) and SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 140”). SFAS No. 155 simplifies the accounting for certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments by allowing them to be accounted for as a whole if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value basis. SFAS No. 155 also clarifies and amends certain other provisions of SFAS No. 133 and SFAS No. 140. SFAS No. 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event occurring in fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2006. Management believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 155 will not have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154 “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,” (“SFAS No. 154”). SFAS No. 154 replaces Accounting Principles Board Option No. 20 (“APB 20) and SFAS No. 3, “Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements,” and applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle, and changes the requirements for accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting principle. APB 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of change a cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle whereas SFAS No. 154 requires retroactive application to prior periods’ financial statements unless it is impracticable. SFAS No. 154 enhances the consistency of financial information between periods. SFAS No. 154 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, and is required to be adopted by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Management believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 154 will not have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement 109,’’ (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109, ``Accounting for Income Taxes.” FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Management is currently assessing in the impact of FIN 48 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, ``Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations,” (“FIN 47”). FIN 47 provides clarification regarding the meaning of the term ``conditional asset retirement obligation’’ as used in SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” (“SFAS 143”). This Interpretation is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In July 2002, The Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) was enacted. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act stipulates that public companies must take responsibility for maintaining an effective system of internal control. The act requires public companies to report on the effectiveness of their control over financial reporting and obtain an attestation report from their independent registered public accounting firm about management’s report. The act requires accelerated filers to report on the company’s internal control over financial reporting for years ending on or after November 15, 2004. Other public companies (non-accelerated filers) must begin to comply with the new requirements related to internal control over financial reporting for their first year ending on or after July 15, 2007 under the latest extension granted by the SEC. The SEC recently has proposed extending the compliance date for non-accelerated filers to include a report on effectiveness of controls over financial reporting to the year ending on or after December 15, 2007. In addition, the SEC has proposed extending the date by which non-accelerated filers must file an auditor’s attestation report on internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports. Under the proposed extension, the attestation report would not be due until the first annual report for a fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2008. J.L. Halsey is a non-accelerated filer and expects to be able to comply with these filing requirements, either as proposed or as currently in effect. 19 Insurance The Company currently purchases insurance policies to cover the ongoing liability and property risks arising out of the current operations. Although the Company purchased professional liability tail coverage insurance for periods prior to the sales of its previous healthcare businesses, the insurer, PHICO Insurance Company, has been declared insolvent and is no longer able to pay claims on behalf of the Company (see “Legal Proceedings”). Employees At June 30, 2006, the Company had 113 employees, of which 62 were employed by Lyris, 48 were employed by EmailLabs, and 3 were employed by other subsidiaries of the Company. The Company’s employees are not represented by any labor union and the Company is not aware of any current activity to organize any of its employees. 