Item 1A. Risk Factors During 2008, we further executed on our publicly announced strategy to improve the profitability of our pro-rate operations by reducing the scale of these operations, eliminating unprofitable routes and shifting routes to partners that maximized passenger connection opportunities. We also worked with our code-share partners to increase certain revenues such as the incentive revenue earned when a Colgan passenger connects to or from a major partner’sconnecting flight, and we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs. While the financial performance of our pro-rate operations improved during the second half of 2008 subsequent to a further execution of our turn-around strategy, we have no assurance as to the adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce our costs. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield, industry capacity growth and fuel prices. Risks Related to our Labor Costs and Collective Bargaining Agreements Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, may directly affect our earnings. Labor costs are not directly reimbursed by any of our code-share partners. Rather, compensation for these costs is intended to be covered by the payments based on pre-set rates for block hours, departures and fixed costs. Labor costs constitute a significant portion, ranging from 26% to 28%, of our total operating costs. Pressure to increase these costs beyond standard industry wages, and therefore beyond the limits intended to be covered by the fixed payments we receive from our code-share partners, is increased by the high degree of unionization of our workforce (71% unionized at December 31, 2008) and the ongoing negotiations between Pinnacle and ALPA for a revised collective bargaining agreement. Pinnacle’s pilots are currently paid at rates less than the industry average for similarly sized aircraft, and an amended collective bargaining agreement with ALPA is expected to contain higher rates of pay for Pinnacle’s pilots. We expect our salaries, wages and benefits costs to materially increase as a result of an amended collective bargaining agreement with Pinnacle’s pilots. In addition, while we have not offered retroactive compensation to Pinnacle’s pilots during the negotiation process, an amended collective bargaining agreement may contain a material signing bonus. An increase in our labor costs over standard industry wages could result in a material reduction to our earnings, and could affect our future prospects for additional business opportunities. Strikes or labor disputes with our employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could result in the termination, or a significant reduction of the benefit, of our code-share agreements. If we are unable to reach an agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions, work stoppages, or a fleet size reduction. Work stoppages may adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements. Several of our code-share agreements, including our Continental CPA, our DCA, and our CRJ-200 ASA, contain provisions granting our partners the right to terminate our agreements in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. Additionally, our CRJ-200 ASA contains a provision allowing Delta to reduce the size of our CRJ-200 fleet in the event of a work stoppage or labor strike. Pinnacle’s collective bargaining agreement with its pilots became amendable on April 30, 2005, and Pinnacle is currently engaged in discussions with ALPA representatives. Both the union and management continue to engage in labor talks that are governed by the National Mediation Board, and the parties have not been released from these talks. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, our business could be harmed. We compete against the other major and regional U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics and other employee groups essential for providing airlines services. Several of the other airlines offer wage and benefit packages that exceed ours. We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified employees or risk considerable turnover, which could negatively affect our ability to provide a quality product to our customers and therefore negatively affect our relationship with our customers. Similarly, as we further expand our Q400 operations for Continental, our need for qualified pilots, mechanics and other airline-specific employees increases. For example, Pinnacle’s ongoing negotiation with ALPA for an amended collective bargaining agreement may complicate our ability to both attract and retain pilots, one of our key employee groups. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified pilots we would be unable to efficiently run our operations and our competitive ability would be impaired. Our business could be harmed and revenue reduced if, due to a shortage of pilots, we are forced to cancel flights and forego earning incentive-based revenue under our code-share agreements. During the first half of 2007 we failed to earn $2.9 million of incentive-based revenue under our ASA in part due to an industry wide pilot shortage. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. All staff comments received from the Securities and Exchange Commission were resolved as of the date of this filing. 24 Table of Contents Item 