ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS West Bancorporation's business is conducted almost exclusively through West Bank. West Bancorporation and West Bank are subject to many of the common risks that challenge publicly traded, regulated financial institutions. An investment in West Bancorporation's common stock is also subject to the following specific risks. Risks Related to West Bancorporation's Business Our loan portfolio. The largest component of West Bank's income is interest received on loans. West Bank is in substantial part a business bank. Its loan portfolio includes a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, construction or land development loans, commercial lines of credit, and commercial term loans. West Bank's typical commercial borrower is a small or medium-sized privately-owned Iowa business person or entity. Our commercial loans typically have greater credit risks than standard residential mortgage or consumer loans, because commercial loans often have larger balances and repayment usually depends on the borrowers' successful business operations. Commercial loans also involve some additional risk, because they generally are not fully repaid over the loan period and thus usually require refinancing or a large payoff at maturity. If the general economy turns substantially downward, commercial borrowers may not be able to repay their loans and the value of their assets, which are usually pledged as collateral, may decrease rapidly and significantly. Also, when credit markets tighten due to adverse developments in specific markets or the general economy, opportunities for refinancing may become more expensive or unavailable, resulting in loan defaults. The general economic conditions in West Bank's market areas are still challenging for many of our existing loan customers, and are limiting our ability to find credit-worthy new loan customers. Competition for quality loans in our market area continues to increase.9 Table of Contents We must effectively manage our credit risks. div>Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. There are obvious risks inherent in making loans. We attempt to reduce our credit risk through prudent loan application and approval procedures, including internal loan reviews before and after proceeds have been disbursed, careful monitoring of the concentration of our loans within specific industries, and collateral and guarantee requirements. These procedures cannot, however, be expected to completely eliminate our credit risks. Nonperforming loans take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial cond ition. At December 31, 2010, West Bank's nonperforming loans, which consist of nonaccrual loans, loans past due 90 days and still accruing, and troubled debt restructured loans, totaled $12.9 million, or 1.46 percent of our loan portfolio. While this total is less than half of the 2009 year end amount, it remains at a level exceeding our usual past experiences. Nonperforming loans adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, thereby negatively affecting our income and returns on assets and equity, and our administrative costs increase significantly. Nonperforming loans require significant time commitments from management and lending staff, which takes time away from other duties, including generation of ne w business. There is no assurance that we will experience continued decreases in nonperforming loans in the future. Various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase. Our allowance for loan losses represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses ba sed on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns. In addition, general factors unique to each measurement date are considered, including economic conditions in certain geographic or industry segments of the loan portfolio, economic trends, risk profile, and portfolio composition. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes in a short period of time. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, many of which are not within our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. West Bank may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent or experiences significant financial d ifficulties. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review West Bank's allowance for loan losses and may require West Bank to increase the provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Determining the appropriate loan loss allowance is more difficult during periods of significant economic downturn. A significant increase in the allowance for loan losses will usually result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If all or a significant portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities were determined to be other than temporarily impaired with credit losses, we would recognize a materi al charge to our earnings and our capital ratios would be adversely impacted. We analyze our investment securities quarterly to determine whether, in the opinion of management, the value of any of the securities is other than temporarily impaired. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in our portfolio of investment securities is determined to be other than temporarily impaired and credit loss related, we will recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios will be adversely impacted. Generally, a fixed income security is determined to be other than temporarily impaired when it appears unlikely that we will receive all of the principal and interest due in accordance with the original terms of the investment. In addition to credit losses, losses are recognized for a security having an unrealized loss if West Bank has the intent to sell the security or if it is more likely than not West Bank will be required to sell the security before collection of the principal amount. Other real estate owned. Other real estate owned consists of real estate collateral that West Bank has received in foreclosure or accepted in lieu of foreclosure of nonperforming loans. Management obtai ns independent appraisals to determine that these properties are carried at fair value less estimated costs to sell. The appraisals are updated at least annually, and any subsequent writedowns are recorded as charges to operations. Future economic conditions could result in reductions of our estimates of fair value for other real estate owned.10Table of Contents Our accounting policies and methods are the basis for how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting polic ies and methods in order to ensure they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in us reporting different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. We have identified three accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations, because they require management to make particularly subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inheren tly uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) determining the fair value and possible other than temporary impairment of investment securities available for sale, (2) determining the valuation of other real estate owned properties, and (3) the allowance for loan losses. Because of the inherent uncertainty of these estimates, no assurance can be given that application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the reporting of different amounts of the fair value of securities available for sale, the fair value of other real estate owned, or the allowance for loan losses, and net income. West Bank and West Bancorporation are highly regulated entities and are currently operating under regulatory agreements that require consent for the payment of common stock dividends and impose capital requirements above ordinary “well-capitalized” standards. Both West Bancorporation and West Bank are highly regulated companies. Financial institution regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. We are subject to regular examinations by the Iowa Division of Banking (IDOB), the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC), and the Federal Reserve. Although our companies are considered well-capitalized under regulatory standards, we experienced significant loan losses during the last three years and the levels of our nonperforming assets have been above historic averages. On April 28, 2010, West Bank entered into a memorandum of understanding with the IDOB and the FDIC. West Bank agreed to obtain prior approval from the IDOB for payment of any dividend that would be used to fund West Bancorporation common stock dividends. West Bank also agreed to maintain a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 8.0 percent of Total Average Assets and a Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of at least 12.0 percent of Total Risk-Weighted assets. These capital ratios are higher than the ordinary regulatory standards for being considered “well-capitalized.” West Bank's capital position exceeded the agreed upon levels as of April 28, 2010, and has continued to do so since. In July 2010, our Board passed a resolution stating it would request prior approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago for (1) the declaration or payment of common stock dividends (which must be paid from current earnings), (2) any increase in debt or issuance of trust preferred obligations, or (3) the redemption of Company stock. West Bancorporation and West Bank believe they have complied with the requirements of the agreement and resolution without any substantial impact on current or planned operations and will be able to continue complying without material impact on future financial results. Each of the regulators approved the payment of a West Bancorporation common stock dividend in December 2010. We are subject to liquidity risks. West Bank maintains liquidity primarily through customer deposits and other short-term funding sources. If economic influences change so that we do not have access to short-term credit, or our depositors withdraw a substantial amount of their funds for other uses, West Bank might experience liquidity issues. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest income, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in West Bank realizing losses. Although West Bank's current sources of funds are adequate for its liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard for the future. Liquidity issues during the financial crisis were severe for regional and community banks, as some of the larger financial institutions significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders reduced or even eliminated federal funds lines for their correspondent customers. If this was to occur to us, and additional debt is needed in the future, there can be no assurance that such debt would be available or, if available, would be on favorable terms. 11Table of Contents The market for banking and financial services in our market areas is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive markets. The West Des Moines metropolitan market area, in particular, has attracted many new financial institutions within the last two decades. Customer loyalty can be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially if those offerings are priced lower than our products. Some of our competitors may also be better able to attract customers, because they provide products and services over a larger geographic area than we serve. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could impair our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results and could increase the risk of fraud. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Management believes that our internal controls over financial reporting are currently effective. While management will continue to assess our controls and procedures and take immediate action to remediate any future perceived issues, there can be no guarantee of the effectiveness of these controls and procedures on an on-going basis. Any failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could impact our ability to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confidence, and adversely impact our business operations and stock price. A breach of information security, compliance breach by one of our employees or vendors, or employee or customer fraud could negatively affect our reputation and business. West Bank depends on data processing, communication, and information exchange on a variety of platforms and networks and over the internet. West Bank cannot be certain all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has installed. West Bank does business with a number of third-party service providers and vendors with respect to West Bank's business, data, and communications needs. If information security is breached, or one of West Bank's employees or vendors breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to West Bank or damages to others. Computer break-ins, phishing, and other disruptions could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us in excess of insurance coverage, and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. Employee or customer fraud could subject us to operational losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of a customer, or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We maintain a substantial system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers or key personnel could cause our business to suffer. Much of our success is due to our ability to attract and retain senior management and key personnel experienced in bank and financial services and who function well in the communities in our market area. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of a relative few individuals. The loss of services of a few of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, at least in the short term. In addition, our success depends in significant part upon our senior management's ability to develop and implement our business strategies.12Table of Contents Risks Related to West Bancorporation's Common Stock Our stock is relatively thinly traded. Although our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Sel ect Market, the trading volume of our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. The desired market characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness require the presence of willing buyers and sellers in the marketplace at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of a relatively small number of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Due to the relatively small trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the stock price to fall more than would otherwise be expected. There can be no assurances concerning if or when we might pay dividends in the future. Our common stock shareholders are only entitled to receive the dividends declared by our Board of Directors. The primary source of money to pay our dividends comes from dividends paid to West Bancorporation by West Bank. As discussed above, West Bank is required by a memorandum of understanding to obtain prior approval from the IDOB for any dividend which would be used to fund West Bancorporation common stock dividends. In December 2010, our Board, with required regulatory consent, declared a special dividend of $0.05 per common share. Although we have historically paid quarterly dividends on our common stock and hope to resume payment of a quarterly dividend at some point in 2011, there can be no assurances that we will be able to reinstate regular quarterly divide nds at any particular future time or in any particular amount. Our participation in the Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may limit the amount of money available to pay common stock dividends and impacts net income available to common stockholders and earnings per share. On December 31, 2008, as part of the CPP, West Bancorporation raised $36 million of capital by selling the U.S. Treasury 36,000 shares of preferred stock and a ten-year warrant to purchase 474,100 shares of our commo n stock for $11.39 per share. The annual cash dividend on the preferred stock is $1,800,000 through 2013 and $3,240,000 thereafter. We anticipate redeeming the preferred stock before 2014. We also intend to pay the preferred stock dividends each quarter before considering allocating any funds for payment of common stock dividends. Therefore, our participation in the CPP will limit the amount of money available to pay common stock dividends so long as the preferred stock is outstanding. The dividends declared on our preferred stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of our business. Repurchase of the preferred stock sold to the Treasury could limit our ability to pay dividends in the future. We anticipate redeeming the preferred stock sold to the U.S. Treasury prior to December 31, 2013. Funds for the redemption may come from a combination of retained earnings, the sale of new West Bancorporation stock, or participation in the Small Business Lending fund. Any of these actions could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to pay common stock dividends. font> Issuing additional common stock or the exercise of the Treasury's warrant may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the preferred stock sale, we sold a warrant to the U.S. Treasury representing the right to purchase 474,100 shares of our common stock at $11.39. In addition, the Company may issue additional common shares in order to raise capital to redeem the preferred stock. If the warrant is exercised or additional shares of common stock are issued, the ownership interests of our existing shareholders will be diluted. The market price of our common stock might decline or fail to advance in response to either of these two potential events. 13Table of Contents Risks Related to the Banking Industry in General and Community Banking in Particular Increasing government regulation is a significant challenge. During the last three years the Dodd-Frank Act, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 have been enacted. These laws and related regulations either have imposed or will impose a significant number of new business practice requirements and restrictions and additional compliance burdens on banks. The regulation of bank services and products in the overall financial services marketplace and the increasing burdens of regulatory compliance are significant challenges for banking profitability, especially for community banks such as West Bank. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (BCFP) will impact consumer financial regulation through federal rulemaking and enforcement of “unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices,” which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consume r financial products or services, including West Bank. The BCFP, which was created by the Dodd-Frank Act, has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the "Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof," with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The BCFP is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are "unfair, deceptive, or abusive" in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. West Bancorporation and West Bank do not employ unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices. However, the potential reach and costs of the BCFP's broad new rulemaking powers on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including West Bank, are currently unknown. Community banking is adversely affected by conditions in national and international financial markets and economies over which West Bank has no meaningful influence or extraordinary ability to predict. The financial crisis of the last several years demonstrates how negative national and international financial and economic developments disrupt the economic activities of local businesses and individuals, who are West Bank's primary customers. Adverse changes in those general conditions promote changes in interest rates, savings rates, demand for loans, loan defaults, and other factors that may substantially and negatively impact West Bank's traditional local commercial banking business model. West Bancorporation has no meaningful influence over national or international financial or economic conditions and may not be able to predict adverse changes in those conditions any better than the average business of its size. In addition, West Bank's business model does not include investment banking, brokerage, or trading activities that may remain profitable even in periods of economic contraction or become profitable in the early stages of a general economic upturn. West Bank, as a community bank, ha s more limited options than larger financial institutions to mitigate general risks of future economic downturns. Changes in interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Earnings in the banking industry, particularly the community bank segment, are substantially dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (depo sits and borrowings). Interest rates are sensitive to many factors, including government monetary and fiscal policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. During the last few years interest rates have been at historically low levels. When the interest rates inevitably increase, banks will experience competitive pressures to increase rates paid on deposits. Depending on competitive pressures, such deposit rate increases may increase faster than rates received on loans, which may reduce net interest margin during the transition periods. Community banks, such as West Bank, rely more heavily on net interest margin than do larger institutions that have additional non-lending sources of income. Technologi cal advances. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables banks to better serve customers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to effectively implement new technology. Many of our large institution competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer, or more quickly offer, additional or superior products that put West Bank at some competitive disadvantage. 14Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff. 