Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Transition Report, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. These risks and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Transition Report. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances in the future or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We discuss all known material risks to our business below. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, our financial condition or our results of operations would likely suffer significantly. In such case, the value of our common stock could decline and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital Resources We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that matures over the next twelve months. We may not be able to repay our substantial indebtedness or refinance or extend such indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to continue as a going concern. We have approximately $6.3 million of principal and interest owing under outstanding debt obligations as of March 23, 2012, consisting of the following: (i) $1.1 million owing to our senior secured lender under a demand promissory note, (ii) $4.0 million of convertible debt that matures on various dates beginning on October 17, 2012 through November 15, 2012, (iii) $1.1 million related to Schneider Power’s bank term loan that matures on April 3, 2012, and (iv) $0.1 million of other financing arrangements. We anticipate that we will need to refinance or otherwise restructure our existing debt obligations and/or raise new debt or equity capital in order to repay all of these outstanding debt obligations when they mature and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in doing so. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital to repay these obligations at maturity and we are otherwise unable to extend the maturity dates or refinance these obligations, we would be in default. A default in any of the debt obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to raise capital in the future and our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flows and although our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, we must raise additional capital or restructure our existing debt obligations over the next twelve months in order to continue as a going concern. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. We have incurred recurring operating losses, including net losses from operations before income taxes of $28.0 million, $46.3 million and $11.3 million in the years ended April 30, 2009, April 30, 2010 and April 30, 2011, respectively, and $38.5 million for the eight months ended December 31, 2011. We used $16.9 million, $14.7 million and $13.6 million of cash for operating activities during our fiscal years ended April 30, 2009, April 30, 2010 and April 30, 2011, respectively, and approximately $9.5 million for the eight months ended December 31, 2011. 18 Table of Contents We have funded our operations primarily with proceeds from public and private offerings of our common stock and secured and unsecured debt instruments. Our history of operating losses and cash uses, the uncertainty of when we will be profitable, if ever, our projected cash needs, our stock price and market capitalization, the terms of the private placement transactions that we completed in the past, and the restricted availability of credit for emerging industries, may impair our ability to raise capital or restructure our debt obligations on terms that we consider reasonable and at the levels that we will require over the next twelve months. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to secure additional funding from public or private offerings on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain the requisite amount of financing needed to fund our planned operations, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to continue as a going concern. Haskell & White LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm for the Transition Period ended December 31, 2011, has included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion that accompanies our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the eight months ended December 31, 2011, indicating that our current liquidity position raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to further improve our liquidity position, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern and, therefore, be required to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities other than in the normal course of business which could cause investors to suffer the loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our anticipated growth and future operations. In addition to our need to restructure our current debt obligations and/or to otherwise raise new capital to fund our operations over the next twelve months, we may also need to raise additional capital to support the anticipated growth in our existing and new customer programs beyond the next twelve months. Our cash needs will depend on numerous factors, including our revenues, completion of our product development activities, our ability to commercialize our advanced propulsion and fuel systems, market acceptance of electric, plug-in electric and fuel cell vehicles, customer and market acceptance and use of our products, the development of an infrastructure to support electric, plug-in electric and fuel cell vehicles, increase in customer-funded programs and product development, our ability to expand Schneider Power’s wind and solar farm portfolio, and our ability to reduce and control costs. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to, among other things, fund operations, expand our tank production facility, continue development programs, and to build out and increase our portfolio of wind and solar energy farms. If we are unable to secure such additional financing, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and we may have to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our development and commercialization plans. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, it will be dilutive to our stockholders and could result in a decrease in our stock price. Our financial condition is impairing our ability to obtain standard credit terms with our suppliers which is negatively impacting our working capital. Due to our historical financial condition, certain of our critical suppliers have reduced our payment terms, limited our trade credit limit and/or required cash-in-advance for some shipments. If we are unable to obtain reasonable payment terms from our suppliers, it will continue to negatively impact our working capital position and could have a material adverse effect on our business and our liquidity. We have a commitment to provide a guaranty to an affiliate’s credit facility that could be called upon if the affiliate defaults on the credit facility in the future. In connection with our acquisition of our 24.9% ownership interest in our German solar affiliate, Asola, we committed to provide a 1.0 million euro guaranty to Asola’s bank to support an increase in Asola’s bank debt. To date, Asola’s bank has not required us to put the guaranty in place. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not be required to put the guaranty in place in the future. If and when the guaranty is put in place, we could be called upon to repay the credit facility up to the limit of our guaranty if Asola were to default on its credit facility. The change in value of our derivative liabilities could have a material effect on our financial results. Included on our consolidated balance sheets are derivative liabilities related to embedded features contained within certain warrant contracts. At each reporting period, we are required to determine the fair value of such derivatives and record the fair value adjustments as non-cash unrealized gains or losses. The share price of our common stock represents the primary underlying variable that impacts the value of the derivative instruments. Additional factors that impact the value of the derivative instruments include the volatility of our stock price and assumed risk free rates. Due to the volatile nature of our share price, we expect that we will recognize non-cash gains or losses on our derivative instruments each reporting period and that the amount of such gains or losses could be material. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Risks Related to our Electric Drive & Fuel Systems Segment Fisker Automotive represents a substantial portion of our existing and anticipated future revenues and these future revenues will depend on Fisker Automotive’s success. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers, in particular, Fisker Automotive, and we expect this trend to continue. During the years ended April 30, 2009, April 30, 2010 and April 30, 2011 and for the eight months ended December 31, 2011, our revenues from Fisker Automotive comprised 59%, 46% and 56%, and 61%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect that our revenues from Fisker Automotive for the 2012 calendar year and the foreseeable future will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenues. Our business operations, financial results and liquidity would be materially adversely affected if: (i) there are unfavorable changes in our agreements with Fisker Automotive, (ii) there are significant delays in the production schedule of the Fisker Karma vehicle platform, (iii) the number of Fisker Karma vehicles produced and/or sold does not meet expectations, or (iv) there are significant delays in payments to us for product shipments to Fisker Automotive. Fisker Automotive’s success and, in turn, our success and ability to reach profitability, is highly dependent on Fisker Automotive’s ability to access capital and execute its business plan. Our ability to achieve profitability is highly dependent on the success of Fisker Automotive. Fisker Automotive’s success is dependent on a number of factors including its ability to raise the level of capital that it needs in order to execute its business plan. If Fisker Automotive is unable to access the amount of capital that it needs to execute its business plan or is not successful for any reason, it would have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial results and our ability to continue as a going concern. Our fuel cell vehicle development and production revenue depends on our relationship with automotive OEMs and their commitment to and success with the commercialization of fuel cell vehicles. Our fuel cell vehicle development programs have represented a significant portion of our historical revenues and we have seen certain programs delayed or suddenly canceled in the past. During calendar 2011, we were awarded in excess of $16.0 million in development and validation programs for application of hydrogen storage in fuel cell vehicles from multiple automotive OEMs. Although we have seen an increase in development program activities, we cannot assure you that these revenues will continue or result in production level revenues. Our fuel cell vehicle development program activities and hydrogen storage production depends on the future commitment of these OEM customers and the success and timing of their programs. Certain of our agreements with General Motors could impair our ability to grow our hydrogen fuel systems business. On February 14, 2011, we and General Motors entered into an Agreement in Support of Development and an Access and Security Agreement in connection with a $10.0 million development and validation program related to hydrogen storage vessels and systems for General Motors’ fuel cell vehicles. On December 21, 2011, these agreements were amended in connection with our receipt of a CNG development program award. The agreements provide General Motors with certain rights should an event of default under either of those agreements occur including, without limitation, (i) a security interest in and an option to purchase at orderly liquidation value any equipment and tooling owned by us and used in the development and/or production of the components that are the subject of the Agreement in Support of Development, as amended, (ii) the right to access our premises and to use our equipment, tooling and employees for a period of time in order to continue development or production, as the case may be; provided, however, General Motors shall be obligated to pay all actual costs related thereto, and (iii) a broad license to use our intellectual property embedded in or related to the deliverable being developed to make, have made, use, produce, manufacture, assemble, package, and distribute the components that are the subject of the Agreement in Support of Development, as amended. If an event of default occurred and General Motors exercised any of such rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our fuel systems business. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products including the production components we supply to Fisker Automotive for the Karma vehicle. These companies may experience product development, resource and funding constraints that could impact their ability to supply components in a timely manner, if at all. Further, any production delays in the Fisker program or other production programs could have a negative effect on our suppliers which, in turn, could result in disruptions in the supply of parts and components to us and materially affect our ability to meet our supply obligations to Fisker Automotive and other customers. Our ability to design and manufacture powertrain and fuel systems for CNG, hybrid, hydrogen and fuel cell applications that can be integrated into new vehicle platforms will be critical to our business and our ability to successfully complete existing development programs. We are currently developing and integrating advanced hybrid propulsion systems for production-intent vehicles. These electric drive and fuel systems are being designed to meet strict design and packaging requirements of our customers. Customers for these systems require that these products meet either their strict design standards or original equipment manufacturer level standards that can vary by jurisdiction. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in increased development, manufacturing, warranty and administrative costs. A significant increase in these costs could adversely affect 20 Table of Contents our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to meet original equipment manufacturer or customer specifications on a timely basis, our existing or future relationships with our original equipment manufacturers and other customers may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be commercially viable, our products and systems generally must be integrated into products manufactured by original equipment manufacturers. We can offer no assurance that original equipment manufacturers will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our hybrid and fuel cell products and systems. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by original equipment manufacturers could adversely affect the market for our hybrid and fuel cell products and systems, and our business results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the growth of CNG, hybrid electric, hydrogen, and other alternative fuel based vehicles. Our future success depends on the continued expansion and commercialization of compressed natural gas, hybrid electric, hydrogen and other alternative fuel based vehicles. The market for these types of vehicles and technologies is influenced by and our sales may be negatively impacted by a number of factors that are outside of our control, including, without limitation, oil prices, battery durability improvements, government support through investment tax credits and other subsidies, government regulation, capital formation, interest rates and consumer disposable income. Additionally, we cannot provide any assurances that the markets for compressed natural gas, hybrid electric vehicles and other alternative energy based vehicles will gain broad acceptance in any economic environment or, if they do, that they will result in increased sales of hybrid vehicles and our advanced fuel system products. Our business depends on auto manufacturers’ timing for pre-production development programs and commercial production. If there are delays in the advancement of original equipment manufacturer alternative fuel technologies or in our original equipment manufacturer customers’ internal plans for advanced vehicle commercialization, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. A mass market for hydrogen products and systems may never develop or may take longer to develop than anticipated. Fuel cell and hydrogen systems represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale or whether original equipment manufacturers will incorporate these technologies into their products. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for hydrogen powered transportation applications, we may be unable to recover our expenditures to develop our fuel systems for hydrogen applications and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, any of which could negatively impact our business. Many factors that are beyond our control may have a negative effect on the development of a mass market for fuel cells and our fuel systems for hydrogen applications. These factors include the following: • cost competitiveness and physical size of fuel cell systems and “balance of plant” components (e.g. fuel metering and regulation, bi-directional flow monitoring, sensors, etc.); • availability, future costs and safety of hydrogen, natural gas and other potential fuel cell fuels; • consumer acceptance of hydrogen or alternative fuel products; • government funding and support for the development of hydrogen vehicles and hydrogen fuel infrastructure; • the willingness of original equipment manufacturers to replace current technology; • consumer perceptions of hydrogen systems; • regulatory requirements; and • emergence of newer, breakthrough technologies and products within the automotive industry. Evolving customer design requirements, product specifications and testing procedures could cause order delays or cancellations. We have experienced delays in shipping our products in the past as a result of changing customer specifications and testing procedures. Due to the dynamic nature of hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell technology, changes in specifications are common and may result in delayed shipments, order cancellations or higher production costs. Evolving design requirements or product specifications may adversely affect our business or financial results. We have limited experience manufacturing fuel systems on a commercial basis. We have limited experience manufacturing fuel systems for compressed natural gas and hydrogen fuel cell applications on a commercial basis. In order to produce propulsion systems for fuel cell applications at affordable prices, we will have to produce such systems through high volume automated processes, which we currently do not have. We do not know whether we, or our suppliers, will be able to develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards, or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel systems for fuel cell applications. Even if we, or our suppliers, are successful in developing 21 Table of Contents our high volume manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will be able to do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedules or to satisfy the requirements of our customers. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones. We have product development programs that are in the pre-commercial stage. The success of each product development program is highly dependent on our correct interpretation of commercial market requirements, and our translation of those requirements into applicable product specifications and appropriate development milestones. If we have misinterpreted market requirements, or if the requirements of the market change, we may develop a product that does not meet the cost and performance requirements for a successful commercial product. In addition, if we do not meet the required development milestones, our commercialization schedules could be delayed, which could result in potential purchasers of these products declining to purchase additional systems or choosing to purchase alternative technologies. Delayed commercialization schedules may also impact our cash flow, which could require increased funding. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to increased warranty claims as our products go to production due to longer warranty periods. In response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. Our business may be subject to product liability claims or product recalls, which could be expensive and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of products and systems to automotive original equipment manufacturers, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Our other products may also be subject to product liability claims or recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our business may become subject to future product certification regulations, which may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and internationally. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. The failure to comply with these certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or in civil or criminal penalties. We anticipate that regulatory bodies will establish certification procedures and impose regulations on fuel cell enabling technologies, which may impair our ability to distribute, install and service these systems. Any new government regulation that affects our advanced fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and servicing of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and harm our results of operations. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, and as a result are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and hazardous waste products that we generate. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, including a discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our insurance and other resources. We have also 22 Table of Contents incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including new or revised safety or environmental standards, could give rise to significant liability and require us to incur substantial expenses and could materially harm our results of operations. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. A range of other technologies could compete with our compressed natural gas, plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell, hydrogen, hybrid or other technologies on which our automotive business is currently focused. Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop and market new or modified compressed natural gas, hybrid and fuel cell products and systems. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Uniform codes and standards for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and related hydrogen refueling infrastructure may not develop in a timely fashion. Uniform codes and standards do not currently exist for fuel cell systems, fuel cell components or the use of hydrogen as a vehicle fuel. Establishment of appropriate codes and standards is a critical element to allow fuel cell system developers, fuel cell component developers and hydrogen storage and handling companies to develop products that will be accepted in the marketplace. All fuels, including hydrogen, pose significant safety hazards, and hydrogen vehicles have not yet been widely used under “real-world” driving conditions. Ensuring that hydrogen fuel is safe to use by the car-driving public requires that appropriate codes and standards be established that will address certain characteristics of hydrogen and the safe handling of hydrogen fuels. The development of fuel cell and hydrogen fuel applicable standards is being undertaken by numerous organizations, including the American National Standards Institute, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the European Integrated Hydrogen Project, the International Code Council, the International Standards Organization, the National Fire Protection Association, the National Hydrogen Association, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the Canadian Standards Association, the American National Standards Institute and the International Electrotechnical Commission. Given the number of organizations pursuing hydrogen and fuel cell codes and standards, it is not clear whether universally accepted codes and standards will result and, if so, when. Although many organizations have identified as a significant priority the development of codes and standards, we cannot assure you that any resulting codes and standards would not materially affect our revenue or the commercialization of our products. Risks Related to Investments and our Renewable Energy Segment We cannot provide any assurance that our affiliate, Asola, will be able to fully respond to the changing market conditions prevailing within the global solar industry. Our German affiliate, Asola, experienced operating losses during calendar 2011 which is requiring it to seek measures to reduce its cost structure to remain competitive. In this regard, Asola has developed a relationship with a Chinese based manufacturer of solar energy products to potentially source partially-assembled solar panel sub-systems in China. We cannot provide any assurance that this relationship will be successful or that the sourcing of these sub-systems will enable Asola to be competitive in the solar industry. Asola may encounter difficulty in integrating these sub-systems into final assembled products and these entities may not be able to reach expected cost objectives. The inability of Asola to manufacture competitively priced solar panels will have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce profits from our investments in Asola. Further, our deposits with and our investments in and advances to Asola could become impaired if Asola is unable to remain competitive over the long term. Schneider Power’s success is highly dependent on its ability to obtain a substantial amount of capital in order to build and commission its renewable energy project pipeline. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Schneider Power, will need substantial capital in order to complete the development and construction of its wind and solar energy project pipeline. If Schneider Power is unable to obtain financing for its project pipeline, then it could result in significant delays in the development and construction of such projects or the sale or other 23 Table of Contents disposition of such projects, which could have a material adverse effect on Schneider Power’s business, its ability to repay any intercompany loans made by us and our ability to recover the investment we made to acquire, and realize additional value from, Schneider Power. Schneider Power’s success is highly dependent on its ability to obtain permits, approvals, authorization, power purchase agreements and retain its land rights. In order for Schneider Power to successfully develop and construct the wind and solar energy projects in its development pipeline it will need to obtain a number of permits, approvals and authorizations from various federal, state, provincial and municipal governmental agencies and power purchase agreements with the respective governments or other third parties and must maintain its land access rights for such projects. We cannot provide any assurances that it will be able to obtain and maintain such permits, approvals, authorizations, agreements or land rights. Failure to obtain and maintain such permits, approvals, authorizations, agreements and land rights could result in significant delays or termination of the development projects, which could have a material adverse effect on Schneider Power’s business. Failure to utilize existing facility space could adversely affect our operating results. We have an 88,000 square foot facility located in Irvine, California, which is currently underutilized. We intended to use that facility for a U.S.-based solar panel operation through our subsidiary, Quantum Solar. However, due to changing market conditions, we no longer plan to perform the complete assembly process in that facility and our solar plans in that facility are uncertain at this time. If we are unable to more fully utilize the Irvine facility, the costs associated with maintaining such facility will adversely affect our operations and financial results. Development and construction of wind and solar energy projects is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Development and construction of wind and solar electricity generation facilities is dependent on site assessment and the successful planning, installation and commissioning of clusters of wind turbines and solar module arrays, which includes foundation and interconnection structures. There is always the risk that a project will sustain delays and incur material cost overruns. In addition, wind and solar potential for a particular generation facility is based on historical data and weather patterns which may change significantly and have an adverse impact on future energy output and project profitability and cash flow for any given period. Fluctuations in the Euro and Canadian dollar could have a material effect on Schneider Power’s business and operations. Schneider Power, a Canadian entity, purchases its wind turbines and a majority of its other capital equipment from foreign suppliers that transact in Euros and U.S. dollars and which have long lead times. Unfavorable fluctuations in the Euro and U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar could have a significant adverse effect on Schneider Power’s financial results and could significantly increase the cost of capital equipment purchased from such foreign suppliers. Decrease in demand or price for solar cells could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We, through our affiliate Asola, have entered into a long-term supply agreement under which we have agreed to purchase solar cells with a cumulative power of 77.5 mega watts through December 31, 2017 at pre-determined quantities that could cause us and Asola to hold larger than expected quantities of inventory on hand as a result of decreased future demand, and at pre-determined prices that could be above market rates in the future that could cause us and Asola to incur losses on the sale of products manufactured utilizing the solar cells. The spot trading prices for solar cell deliveries have decreased to levels that are currently below prices that we have secured for this applicable period under the long-term supply agreement. As a result, Asola demanded an adjustment to the stated pricing under the supply agreement in a fair and reasonable manner to account for the change in economic circumstances under a “loyalty clause” contained in the supply agreement. Asola’s demand and the subsequent negotiations were not successful and the matter is now in litigation in Germany. We cannot provide any assurance that the matter will be resolved in Asola’s favor. If the matter is resolved unfavorably to Asola and it is determined that a loss is probable on our remaining commitments to purchase the solar cells, we will be required to record a charge in the future for the difference between our remaining unconditional commitments and our estimated net realizable value and that charge could be material. Other Risks Related to Our Business The remaining book value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired if a significant decline in our market capitalization occurs in the future. The book value of our net assets is currently close in value to our market capitalization. A decline in market capitalization below book value is an indicator that goodwill and other intangible assets may be impaired under applicable accounting guidance. Impairment testing does not necessarily lead to recognition of an impairment loss but does present the possibility of incurring such a loss. Included in our results for the eight month period ended December 31, 2011 is an impairment charge of $27.2 million. We may be required to further impair our remaining carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets in future periods. Future potential impairments of goodwill, intangible assets or tangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 24 Table of Contents Our credit agreement with our senior secured lender contains certain negative covenants that could restrict our ability to implement our business plan. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement with our senior secured lender, we must first obtain the consent of our senior secured lender before entering into certain transactions or undertaking certain activities including, without limitation, incurring additional debt outside the ordinary course of business, acquiring the stock or assets of another business or entity, and selling or leasing our assets other than in the ordinary course of business. In connection with our acquisition of Schneider Power, our senior secured lender required us to pay a consent fee of $3.0 million which we satisfied by our delivery of a promissory note which is described in our financial statements as the Consent Fee Term Note. In the event that our business plan contemplates transactions or activities that are prohibited under the credit agreement and our senior secured lender is unwilling to give its consent, then we will either have to pay our senior secured lender a fee in order to get its consent or, alternatively, revise our business plan. Past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other similar transactions may not be successful. We have consummated and may continue to consummate acquisitions, equity investments, joint ventures and strategic alliances in order to provide increased capabilities to our existing products, supply new products and services or enhance our distribution channels. We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of and investments in other businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage and geographic locations, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, or incur unforeseen expenses in consummating future acquisitions or other investments, we could incur unanticipated expenses and losses. Any transactions or relationships will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with those matters. Risks that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include, without limitation: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the distraction of management from our business; • the loss of customers of the acquired business; • the potential inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position as a result of an acquisition or investment; • the potential for costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining, uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the risk of entering market segments in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such market segments have stronger market segment positions; • the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal controls of any acquired company or investments that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal controls taken as a whole; • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; • the potential dilution of earnings through acquisitions and options granted to employees of acquired companies or businesses; and • the potential for shareholder lawsuits. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. Our products face and will continue to face significant competition. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources, are currently engaged in the development of plug-in electric hybrid, hydrogen and electric hybrid propulsion products and technologies that are similar to, or may be competitive with, certain of our products and technologies. Because the plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell and hybrid propulsion technologies have the potential to replace existing power sources, competition for plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fueled vehicles may cause original equipment manufacturers to find it advantageous to develop and produce their own hybrid propulsion or fuel management equipment rather than purchase the equipment from us. In addition, greater acceptance of plug-in electric hybrid, electric vehicles and alternative fuel engines or fuel cells may result in new 25 Table of Contents competitors. Furthermore, there are competitors, including original equipment manufacturers, working on developing other plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technologies in our targeted markets. A large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan possess plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid vehicle technology and/or are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of plug-in electric, fuel cell and hybrid vehicles. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have greater financial, labor and other resources and a more diverse and developed customer base which give them significant competitive advantages. We depend on our intellectual property, and our failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. Our failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of our competitive advantage or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation, and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We have not conducted formal evaluations to confirm that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If infringement were to occur, our development, manufacturing, sales and distribution of such technology or products may be disrupted. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of the patents we have filed or other patents that third parties license to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage we seek, if issued at all. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. For instance, it may be difficult for us to enforce certain of our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have inappropriately acquired interests in our intellectual property rights by filing unauthorized trademark applications in foreign countries to register our marks because of their familiarity with our business in the United States. Some of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by any patent, copyright or patent or copyright applications, and, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. We have generally sought to protect such proprietary intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees, although such agreements have not been put in place in every instance. We cannot guarantee that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property or proprietary rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Furthermore, the steps we have taken and may take in the future may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in respect of officers and employees who are no longer employed by us or in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. 26 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary intellectual property used in our principal products. This may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by others. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property litigation, in the future we may commence lawsuits against others if we believe they have infringed our rights, or we may become subject to lawsuits alleging that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. For example, to the extent that we have previously incorporated third-party technology and/or know-how into certain products for which we do not have sufficient license rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to pay substantial damages or royalties, or even be forced to cease sales in the event any owner of such technology or know-how were to challenge our subsequent sale of such products (and any progeny thereof). In addition, to the extent that we discover or have discovered third-party patents that may be applicable to products or processes in development, we may need to take steps to avoid claims of possible infringement, including obtaining non-infringement or invalidity opinions and, when necessary, re-designing or re-engineering products. However, we cannot assure you that these precautions will allow us to successfully avoid infringement claims. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and maintain key personnel. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers, technicians, machinists and management personnel. For example, our research and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for highly skilled engineers is extremely intense, and we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on our chairman of the board, our chief executive officer, or our chief financial officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance may not be sufficient. We carry insurance that we consider adequate in regard to the nature of the covered risks and the costs of coverage. We are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products and our renewable energy projects. The market for plug-in electric hybrid, fuel cell, hybrid and other forms of alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are driven, to a significant degree, by local, state and federal regulations that relate to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants, and that require the purchase of motor vehicles and equipment operating on alternative fuels or fuel cells. Similarly, foreign governmental regulations also affect our international business. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in alternative fuel and fuel cell powered vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current domestic and foreign laws or to adopt additional environmental laws could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, and fuel cells in particular, we cannot assure you that governments will not change their priorities or that any change they make would not materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. Our renewable energy projects are also subject to a number of environmental laws, rules and policies related to noise, air, water, wildlife and other aspects of the environment and the surrounding habitat which must be adhered to in order to obtain the permits necessary to develop, construct and operate the projects. Any change in such laws, rules and policies could result in significant cost-overruns and delays or termination of such projects. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2009, we reported that we had a material weakness over the accounting for and disclosure of derivatives associated with debt and warrant instruments because we lacked the technical expertise and did not maintain adequate procedures to ensure that the accounting for derivative financial instruments was appropriate under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Procedures related to identifying derivative instruments and disclosing derivative instruments at April 30, 2009 did not operate properly and this material weakness resulted in a restatement of our prior financial statements. Since April 30, 2009, we developed and implemented a remediation plan to address the identified material weakness as follows: (i) we increased our technical expertise of GAAP associated with accounting for derivative instruments and (ii) we enhanced internal procedures to better identify derivative financial instruments. 27 Table of Contents Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting and address the concern that gave rise to the material weakness as of April 30, 2009, we cannot be certain that our expanded knowledge and revised internal control practices will ensure that we maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods. Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations. Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, we could face severe consequences from those authorities. In either case, there could result a material adverse effect on our business. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stockholders are subject to significant dilution upon the occurrence of certain events which could result in a decrease in our stock price. As of March 23, 2012, we had approximately 63.3 million shares of our common stock designated for future issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, conversion of outstanding convertible debt or in settlement of other derivative securities. Included in the shares of common stock designated for future issuance discussed above are 3,408,980 shares subject to warrants issued in October 2006 that were exercisable at $0.83 per share (the “October 2006 Warrants”), 550,703 shares subject to warrants issued in September 2011 that were exercisable at $0.83 per share (the “September 2011 Warrants”) and 564,348 shares subject to warrants issued in October 2011 that were exercisable at $0.83 per share (the “October 2011 Warrants”), all of which contain a provision that, subject to certain exceptions, resets the exercise price of such warrants if at any time while such warrants are outstanding we sell or issue (or are deemed to sell or issue) shares of our common stock or rights, warrants, options or other securities or debt convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock at a price below the then current exercise price per share for such warrants. In addition, the October 2006 Warrants contain a provision that recalculates the number of shares that are subject to such warrants whenever there is a reset in the exercise price of such October 2006 Warrants so that the aggregate purchase price payable upon exercise of the October 2006 Warrants after the reset of the exercise price is the same as the aggregate purchase price payable immediately prior to the reset. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public, future resets to the exercise price of the October 2006 Warrants, September 2011 Warrants and October 2011 Warrants and the issuance of the shares reserved for future issuance will be dilutive to our existing stockholders and could result in a decrease in our stock price. We may not be able to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. There are a number of continued listing requirements that we must satisfy in order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, including, without limitation, a requirement that our closing bid price be at least $1.00 per share. If we fail to maintain compliance with all applicable continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, our ability to obtain financing to repay debt and fund our operations. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been volatile. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors described in this prospectus or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our common stock. Prices for our common stock may also be influenced by the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perceptions about us and our business, our future financial results, the absence of cash dividends on our common stock and general economic and market conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert our management and other resources. 28 Table of Contents Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends on our common stock, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of our Credit Agreement, as amended, with our senior secured lender we are prohibited from declaring or making any dividends as long as the Credit Agreement remains in effect. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your units, and you may not realize a return on your investment in our securities. Provisions of Delaware law and of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may make a takeover or change in control more difficult. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and of Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and board of directors oppose. Public stockholders that might desire to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for the following: • a staggered board of directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors in any one year; • the exclusive right of the board of directors to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the board of directors; • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control of us; • advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which could delay a third party from pursuing an acquisition; and • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and requiring the affirmative vote of 80% of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain other provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, which could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and the board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 