Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Industry The tanker industry is highly dependent upon the crude oil and petroleum products industries. The employment of our vessels is driven by the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the availability of modern tanker capacity and the scrapping, conversion or loss of older vessels. Historically, the world oil and petroleum markets have been volatile and cyclical as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the supply, price, production and transport of oil, including: • increases and decreases in the demand for crude oil and petroleum products; • availability of crude oil and petroleum products; • demand for crude oil and petroleum product substitutes, such as natural gas, coal, hydroelectric power and other alternate sources of energy that may, among other things, be affected by environmental regulation; • actions taken by OPEC and major oil producers and refiners; • global and regional political and economic conditions; • developments in international trade; • international trade sanctions; • environmental factors; • weather; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The economic expansion in the U.S., Chinese and Indian economies, and the improved performance of the Japanese economy, with their impact on Pacific Rim and Latin American activity, maintained, albeit at a slower pace, the strong demand for crude oil and oil products seen during 2004 and 2005. The strong demand for crude oil and oil products was also supported by seasonal and environmental factors and the need to restore depleted oil inventories in the U.S. and the other major Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development importing countries. However, if the production of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products slow in the future, a corresponding decrease in shipments of these products could have an impact on the employment of our vessels and the charter rates that they command. In particular, the charter rates that we earn from our spot charters, contracts of affreightment and vessels employed in pools may decline. In addition, overbuilding of tankers has, in the past, led to a decline in charter rates. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. The resulting decline in revenues could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The global tanker industry is highly competitive. We operate our fleet in a highly competitive market. Our competitors include owners of VLCCs, Suezmax, Aframax, Panamax and Handysize tankers. These competitors include other independent tanker companies, as well 5 Table of Contents as national and independent oil companies, some of whom have greater financial strength and capital resources than we do. Competition in the tanker industry is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition, and the acceptability of the available tankers and their operators to potential charterers. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect our business. An attack like those of September 11, 2001 or longer-lasting wars or international hostilities, including those currently in Afghanistan and Iraq, could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and negatively affect our investment and our customers’ investment decisions over an extended period of time. We conduct our vessel operations internationally, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. As our current charters expire, new charters at attractive rates may not be available. In 2005, we derived approximately 47% of our revenues from time charters, as compared to 37% in 2004. As the current period charters of our vessels expire, it may not be possible to re-charter these vessels on a period basis at attractive rates. If attractive period charter opportunities are not available, we would seek to charter our vessels on the spot market. Charter rates in the spot market are subject to significant fluctuations, and tankers traded in the spot market may experience substantial off-hire time. If our exposure to the spot market or contracts of affreightment increases, our revenues could suffer and our expenses could increase. The spot market for crude oil and petroleum product tankers is highly competitive. As a result of any increased reliance on the spot market, we may experience a lower utilization of our fleet, leading to a decline in operating revenue. Moreover, to the extent our vessels are employed in the spot market, both our revenue from vessels and our operating costs, specifically, our voyage expenses will be more significantly impacted by increases in the cost of bunkers (fuel). Unlike time charters in which the charterer bears all of the bunker costs, in spot market voyages we bear the bunker charges as part of our voyage costs. As a result, while historical increases in bunker charges are factored into the prospective freight rates for spot market voyages periodically announced by WorldScale Association (London) Limited and similar organizations, increases in bunker charges in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations for the period in which the increase occurs. In addition, to the extent we employ our vessels pursuant to contracts of affreightment or under pooling arrangements, the rates that we earn from the charterers under those contracts may be subject to reduction based on market conditions, which could lead to a decline in our operating revenue. Oil industry developments, competition among tanker operators and evolving regulatory requirements will compel us to renew our fleet and make ongoing capital expenditures. During the down cycle in the oil industry in late 1998 and 1999, the oil industry experienced consolidation with the announcement or completion of several combinations among major oil companies, as well as consolidations involving tanker operators. As a result, the major oil companies have started to focus their chartering requirements with a smaller number of shipping companies that possess large and diversified modern fleets that are compliant with the increasingly stringent environmental regulations applicable to tanker operators. To address these developments, we intend to expand and further renew our fleet by pursuing the acquisition or construction of additional vessels or fleets or tanker companies that are complementary to our existing operations, assuming we have the financial resources and debt capacity to do so. In addition, we are exploring opportunities in the liquefied natural gas (LNG) market to expand our exposure in the overall energy sector. However, the world’s leading tanker and LNG shipyards have little or no additional capacity until the middle of 2009 and we may not be able to purchase or construct additional vessels, other than those currently on order, on commercially acceptable terms. If we seek to expand through the acquisition of other tanker or LNG companies, we face numerous challenges, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations; 6 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of potentially unknown material liabilities or contingent liabilities of acquired companies; • competition from other potential acquirers, some of which have greater financial resources; • impairment of acquired assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; and • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate successfully the operations, personnel, services or vessels that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are subject to extensive international, national and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. In addition, major oil companies chartering our vessels impose, from time to time, their own environmental and health and safety requirements. We have incurred significant expenses in order to comply with these regulations and requirements, including the costs of ship modifications and changes in operating procedures, additional maintenance and inspection requirements, contingency arrangements for potential spills, insurance coverage and full implementation of the new security-on-vessels requirements which came into effect on July 1, 2004. In particular, certain international, national and local laws and regulations require, among other things, double hull construction for new tankers, as well as the retrofitting or phasing-out of single hull tankers based on each vessel’s date of build, gross tonnage (a unit of measurement for the total enclosed spaces within a vessel) and/or hull configuration. Furthermore, certain countries have already banned single-hull tankers carrying heavy grades of oil from approaching their coastlines or entering their ports. However, due to our current trading patterns, we do not believe these restrictions will have a material effect on our operations and, as with all vessels in our fleet, we will continue to evaluate the usefulness of our single-hull vessels, their marketability and their compatibility with our chartering strategies. All of the newbuildings we have contracted to purchase are double-hulled. However, because environmental regulations may become stricter, future regulations may limit our ability to do business, increase our operating costs and/or force the early retirement of our vessels, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. International, national and local laws imposing liability for oil spills are also becoming increasingly stringent. Some impose joint, several, and in some cases, unlimited liability on owners, operators and charterers regardless of fault. We could be held liable as an owner, operator or charterer under these laws. In addition, under certain circumstances, we could also be held accountable under these laws for the acts or omissions of Tsakos Shipping & Trading (“Tsakos Shipping”) or Tsakos Energy Management, members of the Tsakos Group that provide technical and commercial management services for our vessels and us, or others in the management or operation of our vessels. Although we currently maintain, and plan to continue to maintain, for each of our vessels pollution liability coverage in the amount of $1 billion per incident (the maximum amount available), a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage we have available, and result in our having to liquidate assets to pay claims. In addition, we may be required to contribute to funds established by regulatory authorities for the compensation of oil pollution damage. 7 Table of Contents Maritime disasters and other operational risks may adversely impact our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of ocean-going vessels has an inherent risk of maritime disaster, environmental mishaps, cargo and property losses or damage and business interruptions caused by, among others: • mechanical failure; • human error; • labor strikes; • adverse weather conditions; • vessel off hire periods; • regulatory delays; and • political action, civil conflicts, terrorism and piracy in countries where vessel operations are conducted, vessels are registered or from which spare parts and provisions are sourced and purchased. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our operations, result in loss of revenues or increased costs and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to perform our charters. The events of September 11, 2001 led to increases in our insurance premium rates and the implementation of special “war risk” premiums for certain trading routes. The more recent natural disasters, such as the hurricanes striking the United States, have led to yet further increases. For 2004-2005, our P&I club insurance premiums increased for several of our vessels by approximately 21%, but for others the increase was minimal. Our hull and machinery insurance premiums also increased in certain cases by 9%, but in others by less than 3%. Increases of up to 15% for P&I club insurance premiums and up to 10% for hull and machinery insurance premiums are expected for 2006-2007. In addition, “war risk” coverage for vessels operating in certain geographical areas has doubled, but this type of coverage represents a relatively small portion of our total insurance premiums. These increases in insurance rates would adversely affect our profitability. Our vessels could be arrested at the request of third parties. Under general maritime law in many jurisdictions, crew members, tort claimants, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services and other claimants may lien a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through court process. In some jurisdictions, under the extended sister ship theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s maritime lien has arisen, but also any associated vessel under common ownership or control. While in some jurisdictions which have adopted this doctrine, liability for damages is limited in scope and would only extend to a company and its ship owning subsidiaries, we cannot assure you that liability for damages caused by some other vessel determined to be under common ownership or control with our vessels would not be asserted against us. Our vessels may be requisitioned by governments without adequate compensation. A government could requisition or seize our vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Business We depend on companies that are part of the Tsakos Group to manage our business. We do not have the employee infrastructure to manage our operations and have no physical assets except our vessels and the newbuildings that we have under contract. We have engaged Tsakos Energy Management to perform all of our executive functions. Tsakos Energy Management directly provides us with financial, accounting and other back-office services, including acting as our liaison with the New York Stock Exchange and the Bermuda Stock Exchange. Tsakos Energy Management, in turn, oversees and subcontracts commercial management, day-to-day fleet technical management, such as crewing, chartering and vessel purchase and sale functions, to Tsakos Shipping, one of the world’s largest independent tanker managers. As a result, we depend upon the continued services of Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Energy Management depends on the continued services of Tsakos Shipping. We derive significant benefits from our relationship with the Tsakos Group, including purchasing discounts to which we otherwise would not have access. We would be materially adversely affected if either Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping becomes unable or unwilling to continue providing services for our benefit at the level of quality they have provided such services in the past and at comparable costs as they have charged in the past. If we were required to employ a ship management company other than Tsakos Energy Management, we believe our access to world-class charterers could be diminished, our management costs could increase and our profitability could be adversely affected. Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. The ability of Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our knowledge or control could impair their financial strength and, because both of these companies are privately held, it is unlikely that information about their financial strength would become public unless these companies began to default on their obligations. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Tsakos Energy Management has the right to terminate its management agreement with us, and Tsakos Shipping has the right to terminate its contract with Tsakos Energy Management. Tsakos Energy Management may terminate its management agreement with us at any time upon one year’s notice. In addition, if even one director were to be elected to our board without having been recommended by our existing board, Tsakos Energy Management would have the right to terminate the management agreement on 10 days’ notice. If Tsakos Energy Management terminates the agreement for this reason, we would be obligated to pay Tsakos Energy Management the present discounted value of all payments that would have otherwise become due under the management agreement until June 30 in the tenth year following the date of the termination plus the average of the incentive awards previously paid to Tsakos Energy Management multiplied by ten. A termination as of December 31, 2005 would have resulted in a payment of approximately $79.0 million. Tsakos Energy Management’s contract with Tsakos Shipping may be terminated by either party upon six months’ notice and would terminate automatically upon termination of our management agreement with Tsakos Energy Management. Our ability to pursue legal remedies against Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping is very limited. In the event Tsakos Energy Management breached its management agreement with us, we could bring a lawsuit against Tsakos Energy Management. However, because we are not ourselves party to a contract with Tsakos Shipping, it may be impossible for us to sue Tsakos Shipping for breach of its obligations under its contract with Tsakos Energy Management, and Tsakos Energy Management, which is an affiliate of Tsakos Shipping, would 9 Table of Contents probably have no incentive to sue Tsakos Shipping. Tsakos Energy Management is a company with no substantial assets and no income other than the income it derives under our management agreement. Therefore, it is unlikely that we would be able to obtain any meaningful recovery if we were to sue Tsakos Energy Management or Tsakos Shipping on contractual grounds. Tsakos Shipping manages other tankers and could experience conflicts of interests in performing obligations owed to us and the operators of the other tankers. Tsakos Shipping manages three VLCC tankers, two double-hull and one single-hull, that operate under long term bareboat charters, plus four other tankers aged over twenty years, in addition to the vessels that it manages for us. These vessels are operated by the same group of Tsakos Shipping employees that manage our vessels, and Tsakos Shipping has advised us that its employees manage these vessels on an “ownership neutral” basis; that is, without regard to who owns them. Due to their age and design, the tankers that are managed by Tsakos Shipping primarily serve a different market than the market served by our vessels, however, it is possible that Tsakos Shipping might allocate charter or spot opportunities to other Tsakos Shipping vessels when our vessels are unemployed, or could allocate more lucrative opportunities to its other vessels. It is also possible that Tsakos Shipping could in the future agree to manage more tankers that directly compete with us. Members of the Tsakos Group may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet. Tsakos Shipping has given us a right of first refusal on any opportunity to purchase a tanker which is 10 years of age or younger that is referred to or developed by Tsakos Shipping. Were we to decline any opportunity offered to us, or if we do not have the resources or desire to accept it, other members of the Tsakos Group might decide to accept the opportunity. In that case, they could be in competition with our fleet and be faced with conflicts of interest between their own interests and their obligations to us. Our chief executive officer has affiliations with Tsakos Energy Management and Tsakos Shipping which could create conflicts of interest. Nikolas Tsakos is the president, chief executive officer and a director of our company and an officer, director and the sole shareholder of Tsakos Energy Management. Nikolas Tsakos is also the son of the founder and chief executive officer of Tsakos Shipping. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest that could result in our losing revenue or business opportunities or increase our expenses. Our commercial arrangements with Tsakos Energy Management and Argosy may not always remain on a competitive basis. We pay Tsakos Energy Management a management fee for its services pursuant to our management agreement. We also place our hull and machinery insurance, increased value insurance and loss of hire insurance through Argosy Insurance Company, Bermuda, a captive insurance company affiliated with the Tsakos Group. We believe that the management fees that we pay Tsakos Energy Management compare favorably with management compensation and related costs reported by other publicly traded shipping companies and that our arrangements with Argosy are structured at arms-length market rates. Our board reviews publicly available data periodically in order to confirm this. However, we cannot assure you that the fees charged to us are or will continue to be as favorable to us as those we could negotiate with third parties and our board could determine to continue transacting business with Tsakos Energy Management and Argosy even if less expensive alternatives were available from third parties. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success depends particularly on the continued service of Nikolas Tsakos, our president and chief executive officer and the sole shareholder of Tsakos Energy Management. The loss of Mr. Tsakos’s services or the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. 10 Table of Contents Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels which may adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of tankers may increase or decrease depending on any of the following: • general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry; • supply and demand balance for ships within the tanker industry; • competition from other shipping companies; • types and sizes of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; • prevailing level of charter rates; and • technological advances. We have a policy of considering the disposal of tankers periodically and in particular after they reach 20 years of age. If we sell tankers at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying value on our financial statements, with the result that we will incur a loss. In addition, accounting pronouncements require that we periodically review long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss for an asset held for use should be recognized when the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. Measurement of the impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset as provided by third parties. In this respect, management regularly reviews the carrying amount of our vessels in connection with the estimated recoverable amount for each vessel. Such reviews may from time to time result in asset write-downs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the latter part of 2002, the sinking of the Prestige and related events occurred which in the ensuing period has had an impact on the valuation of single-hull vessels. Consequently, in 2002 we determined that our single-hull vessels, Panos G and Liberty, were impaired and recorded a $10.8 million impairment loss for the year ended December 31, 2002. No such impairment loss was incurred for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. If Tsakos Shipping is unable to attract and retain skilled crew members, our reputation and ability to operate safely and efficiently may be harmed. Our continued success depends in significant part on the continued services of the officers and seamen whom Tsakos Shipping provides to crew our vessels. The market for qualified, experienced officers and seamen is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as a result of the growth in world economies and other employment opportunities. Although Tsakos Shipping sponsors two marine academies in the Philippines and has opened a manning office in Odessa, Ukraine, we cannot assure you that Tsakos Shipping will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain properly skilled personnel at commercially reasonable salaries. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate cost-effectively and our ability to increase the size of our fleet. Labor interruptions could disrupt our operations. Substantially all of the seafarers and land based employees of Tsakos Shipping are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will 11 Table of Contents prevent labor interruptions. In addition, some of our vessels operate under flags of convenience and may be vulnerable to unionization efforts by the International Transport Federation and other similar seafarer organizations which could be disruptive to our operations. Any labor interruption or unionization effort which is disruptive to our operations could harm our financial performance. The contracts to purchase our newbuildings present certain economic and other risks. We currently have contracts to purchase sixteen newbuildings, including one LNG carrier, that are scheduled for delivery during 2006, 2007 and 2008. If available, we may also order additional newbuildings. During the course of construction of a vessel, we are typically required to make progress payments. While we have refund guarantees from banks to cover defaults by the shipyards and our construction contracts would be saleable in the event of our payment default, we can still incur economic losses in the event that we or the shipyards are unable to perform our respective obligations. Shipyards periodically experience financial difficulties. The acquisition of LNG carriers could expose us to additional risks since neither Tsakos Energy Management nor Tsakos Shipping has prior experience in managing and transporting LNG. The profitability of our LNG vessel under construction will be subject to market volatility. The LNG market is still in its infancy and could fail to develop into a mature state for profitable LNG shipping investments. In such market scenarios, we could fail to dispose of our newbuilding LNG contract or the actual vessel once delivered. If we opt to exit this sector, for whatever reason, we might have to sell the contract at a price below the original contract price and subsequently suffer an economic loss or might be forced to take delivery of the vessel and operate it in unprofitable or breakeven levels. We have yet to secure employment for our LNG newbuilding. We have purposely refrained from fixing employment for the vessel in expectation of securing a better rate and terms, closer to the date of delivery in 2007, than currently available. If the market experiences a downturn in the next two years we might not be able to secure employment at all or be obliged to accept charters for rates materially below those originally factored into our investment evaluation. The effectiveness of attaining accretive charters would be determined by the experience of Tsakos Shipping LNG dedicated personnel. All LNG commercial management services would be subcontracted to Tsakos Shipping as is customary with our existing tanker operations. However, neither Tsakos Energy Management nor Tsakos Shipping have as of now dedicated personnel for running LNG operations nor can we guarantee that they will employ an adequate number of employees by the time we take delivery of our first LNG carrier. In addition, we can not guarantee that these employees, both onshore and at-sea will prove adequate in their assigned role. The technical management of our LNG vessel will largely rely on third parties with whom we have no prior experience of cooperation. We intend to subcontract all technical management aspects of our LNG operation to a reputable third party for a fee. We can not guarantee the quality of their services nor the longevity of the management contract. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our tankers. We seek to employ our tankers on time charters, contracts of affreightment and in the spot market in a manner that will optimize our earnings. As of December 31, 2005, 14 of our tankers were contractually committed to period employment. The remaining terms of 12 of these period charters range from one month to three years and, in the case of the Suezmax vessel Triathlon six years. For the vessel on bareboat charter, Millennium, the remaining term is 7.5 years. Although these period charters provide steady streams of revenue, our tankers committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upswing in the tanker industry cycle, when spot voyages may be more profitable. If we cannot re-charter these vessels on long-term period charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. 12 Table of Contents Our significant investment in ice-class vessels might not prove successful. We have made significant investments in building a solid presence in the ice-class tanker market through both building and acquiring ice strengthened vessels. This type of vessel commonly commands a premium to build and/or acquire to compensate for the ice-class features of the hull and engine. The versatility of these vessels allows them to operate not only in ice-bound routes, but also in conventional tanker routes. Usually rates for ice bound trades are at a premium to conventional tanker trades for the period the vessel operates in such demanding conditions. Ice-class vessels do not commonly operate throughout the year in such harsh environments. We can not guarantee that our vessels will operate in ice-class trades for meaningful periods and/or earn rates with premiums to compensate for the investment made. If our vessels fail to earn any material and sustained ice-class premium, their revenues would derive from conventional routes which we can not guarantee will be adequate to financially support our ice-class investment. If the charterer under one of our bareboat charters is unable to perform under the charter, we may lose revenues. We currently have a bareboat charter contract for the Millennium with Hyundai Merchant Marine (HMM), a member of the Hyundai group of companies. The financial difficulties that the Hyundai group has faced in the past may still affect HMM’s ability to perform under the bareboat charter, which is scheduled to expire in 2013. This could result in the loss of significant revenue. For 2005, revenue under this charter totaled $9.3 million. In addition, we may expand this chartering relationship with HMM to other vessels in our fleet which would ultimately increase our exposure to that particular charterer. We may not be able to finance all of the vessels we currently have on order. We have not finalized financing arrangements to satisfy the balance of the purchase price due, approximately $210 million, for three of the sixteen vessels that we have on order, H-1754 (LNG carrier for delivery in January 2007) and H-1342 and H-1344 (two Aframaxes for delivery towards the end of 2008). We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing for these newbuildings on terms that are favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to finance further installments for the newbuildings we have on order, we may attempt to sell the uncompleted vessels to a buyer who would assume the remainder of the contractual obligations. The amount we would receive from the buyer would depend on market circumstances and could result in a deficit over the advances we had paid to the date of sale plus capitalized costs. Alternatively, we may default on the contract, in which case the builder would sell the vessel and refund our advances, less any amounts the builder would deduct to cover all of its own costs. We would be obliged to cover any deficiency arising in such circumstances. Apart from the delay in receiving the refund of advances and the possible payment of any deficiencies, the direct effect on our operations of not acquiring the vessel would be to forego any revenues and related vessel operating cash flows. We may sell one or more of our newbuildings. While we intend to take delivery of and operate all sixteen newbuildings we currently have on order, attractive opportunities may arise to sell one or more of these vessels while they are under construction or after they are delivered. Our board of directors will review any such opportunity and may conclude that the sale of one or more vessel would be in our best interests. If we sell a vessel, we would receive the proceeds from the sale, repay any indebtedness we had incurred relating to such newbuilding and we would no longer be responsible for further installments under the relevant newbuilding contract. We would, however, forego any revenues and operating cash flows associated with such newbuilding. 13 Table of Contents We will face challenges as we diversify and position our fleet to meet the needs of our customers. We may need to diversify our fleet to accommodate the transportation of forms of energy other than crude oil and petroleum products in response to industry developments and our customers’ needs. Accordingly, the Company is continually exploring opportunities in the Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) market and the greater oil onshore / offshore sector. To this end, in June 2004 we contracted for the purchase of an LNG carrier. As the composition of our fleet continues to change, we may not have adequate experience in transporting these other forms of energy. In addition, if the cost structure of a diversified fleet that is able to transport other forms of energy differs significantly from the cost structure of our current fleet, our profitability could be adversely affected. This could happen, for example, if we determined to purchase additional ships with the necessary cooling capacity to transport LNG. We may not have adequate insurance. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. We believe that we maintain as much insurance on our vessels, through insurance companies, including Argosy, a member of the Tsakos Group, and P&I clubs as is appropriate and consistent with industry practice. However, particularly in view of the conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere, we cannot assure you that this insurance will remain available at reasonable rates, and we cannot assure you that the insurance we are able to obtain will cover all foreseen liabilities that we may incur, particularly those involving oil spills and catastrophic environmental damage. In addition, we may not be able to insure certain types of losses, including loss of hire, which insurance coverage may become unavailable. We are subject to funding calls by our protection and indemnity clubs, and our clubs may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our subsidiaries are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I clubs. P&I clubs are mutual insurance clubs whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other club members. The objective of a P&I club is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member’s vessels entered into the club. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the club, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the club. Claims submitted to the club may include those incurred by members of the club, as well as claims submitted to the club from other P&I clubs with which our P&I club has entered into interclub agreements. We cannot assure you that the P&I clubs to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect our profitability. The insolvency or financial deterioration of any of our insurers or reinsurers would negatively affect our ability to recover claims for covered losses on our vessels. We have placed our hull and machinery, increased value and loss of hire insurance with Argosy, a captive insurance company affiliated with the Tsakos Group. Argosy reinsures the insurance it underwrites for us with various reinsurers, however, the coverage deductibles of the reinsurance policies periodically exceed the coverage deductibles of the insurance policies Argosy underwrites for us. Argosy, therefore, would be liable with respect to the difference between those deductibles in the event of a claim by us to which the deductibles apply. Although these reinsurers have credit ratings ranging from BBB to AA, we do not have the ability to independently determine our insurers’ and reinsurers’ creditworthiness or their ability to pay on any claims that we may have as a result of a loss. In the event of insolvency or other financial deterioration of our insurer or its reinsurers, we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover on any claims we suffer. Our degree of leverage and certain restrictions in our financing agreements impose constraints on us. We incur substantial debt to finance the acquisition of our tankers. At December 31, 2005, our debt to capital ratio was 42% (debt/debt plus equity), with $433.5 million in long-term debt outstanding. Assuming known and estimated debt financing arrangements for our future newbuilding deliveries and recently announced acquisitions and based on our current forecasts of income for 2006 and 2007, we expect this ratio to be at 14 Table of Contents approximately 63% by the end of December 2007, but declining thereafter. We are required to apply a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations, before interest payment, to the payment of principal and interest on this debt. In 2005, approximately 28% of cash flow derived from operations was dedicated to debt service, excluding debt prepayment from the sale of vessels and from the proceeds of the equity offering in 2004. This limits the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other purposes. Our degree of leverage could have important consequences for us, including the following: • a substantial decrease in our net operating cash flows or an increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; • we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may make it more difficult for us to expand our fleet; and • any significant amount of leverage exposes us to increased interest rate risk and makes us vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally. In addition, our financing arrangements, which we secured by mortgages on our ships, impose operating and financial restrictions on us that restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • sell the capital of our subsidiaries or other assets; • make investments; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; • repurchase common shares; and • pay cash dividends. We have a holding company structure which depends on dividends from our subsidiaries and interest income to pay our overhead expenses and otherwise fund expenditures consisting primarily of advances on newbuilding contracts and the payment of dividends to our shareholders. As a result, restrictions contained in our financing arrangements and those of our subsidiaries on the payment of dividends may restrict our ability to fund our various activities. We selectively enter into derivative contracts, which can result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. In the past five years we have selectively entered into derivative contracts both for investment purposes and to hedge our overall interest expense. Although our board of directors has reviewed and approved all our derivative contracts as being within reasonable limits and reasonable in light of our particular investment strategy at the time we entered into each such derivative contract, until August 2001 our board had not adopted any formal policy or qualitative or quantitative limitations on the scope of our investing activities with respect to derivative instruments. Prior to the decision of our board in 2002 to enter into interest rate swap arrangements and other derivative instruments solely for purposes of hedging our interest rate exposure under our floating rate secured bank facilities, we entered into non-hedging arrangements. Loans advanced under our secured credit facilities are, generally, advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our financial condition could be materially adversely affected at any 15 Table of Contents time that we have not entered into interest rate hedging arrangements to hedge our interest rate exposure and the interest rates applicable to our credit facilities and any other financing arrangements we may enter into in the future, including those we enter into to finance a portion of the amounts payable with respect to newbuildings. Moreover, even if we have entered into interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments for purposes of managing our interest rate exposure, our hedging strategies may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses. In August 2001, our board adopted a risk management policy and established a risk committee consisting of Messrs. Stavropoulos, Nicholson, Tsakos and our chief financial officer, Mr. Durham, to oversee all our derivative transactions. It is our policy to monitor our exposure to business risk, and to manage the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rate movements and bunker prices on earnings and cash flows through derivatives. Derivative contracts are executed when management believes that the action is not likely to significantly increase overall risk. Entering into swaps and derivatives transactions is inherently risky and presents various possibilities for incurring significant expenses. The derivatives strategies that we employ in the future may not be successful or effective, and we could, as a result, incur substantial additional interest costs. See “—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a description of how our current interest rate swap arrangements have been adversely impacted by recent events. The appraised value of our ships could deteriorate as the result of a variety of factors, resulting in our inability to comply with covenants under our loan agreements. The loan agreements we use to finance our ships require us not to exceed specified debt-to-asset ratios. Our only significant assets are our ships, which are appraised each year. The appraised value of a ship fluctuates depending on a variety of factors including the age of the ship, its hull configuration, prevailing charter market conditions, supply and demand balance for ships and new and pending legislation. We cannot guarantee that a deterioration of our asset values will not result in defaults in the future, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to negotiate a waiver in the event of a default. A default under one of our loan agreements could trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in our other loan agreements, which in turn could result in all or a substantial amount of our debt becoming due at a time when we could not satisfy our obligations. If we default under any of our loan agreements, we could forfeit our rights in our vessels and their charters. We have pledged all of our vessels and related collateral as security to the lenders under our loan agreements. Default under any of these loan agreements, if not waived or modified, would permit the lenders to foreclose on the mortgages over the vessels and the related collateral, and we could lose our rights in the vessels and their charters. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs can be both substantial and unpredictable. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. This would result in decreased earnings. A significant amount of our 2005 revenues were derived from three customers and a significant amount of our 2004 revenues were derived from three customers, and our revenues could decrease significantly if we lost these customers. In 2005, approximately 16% of our revenues came from contracts of affreightment for three of our tankers with Lyondell/Citgo, compared to 19% in 2004. Also in 2005, approximately 11% of our revenues came from Petrobras and approximately 11% of our revenues derived from Star Tankers. Our inability or failure to continue to employ our vessels at rates comparable to those earned from Lyondell/Citgo, Petrobras and Star Tankers, the loss of these customers or our failure to charter these vessels otherwise in a reasonable period of time or at all could adversely affect our operations and performance. Although our customers generally include leading national, major 16 Table of Contents and other independent oil companies and refiners, we are unable to assure you that future economic circumstances will not render one or more of such customers unable to pay us amounts that they owe us, or that these important customers will not decide to contract with our competitors or perform their shipping functions themselves. Approximately 16% of our revenue is derived from our customers that conduct a significant amount of business in Venezuela. Lyondell/Citgo, accounted for approximately 16% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and taken together with PDVSA accounted for approximately 20% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004. Those two companies conduct a significant amount of business in Venezuela. In 2005 we did not conduct any business with PDVSA but we may conduct business with them in the future. Venezuela has experienced economic difficulties and social and political changes in recent years. During late 2002, the country experienced a six week general strike during which commercial and industrial activity ceased generally and PDVSA’s oil production and refining facilities were out of operation and oil production ceased. Although the strike was over by the end of January 2003 and the situation improved, there has been political unrest in 2004 and we cannot say whether there will be further unrest or political upheavals in Venezuela or whether PDVSA will enjoy uninterrupted oil production. If we were to lose these customers, or if their exports were curtailed, or if these customers were to become unable to perform their contractual obligations to us, our earnings would be adversely affected. If we were to be subject to tax in jurisdictions in which we operate, our financial results would be adversely affected. Our income is not presently subject to taxation in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax. We believe that we should not be subject to tax under the laws of various countries other than the United States in which we conduct activities or in which our customers are located. However, our belief is based on our understanding of the tax laws of those countries, and our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law or interpretation. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax or to make payments in lieu of tax. In addition, payments due to us from our customers may be subject to tax claims. Under United States federal tax rules applicable to international shipping income derived by qualifying non-United States corporations we will be eligible for a special statutory exemption if we satisfy the so-called “publicly-traded” test set forth in Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Under Treasury regulations interpreting the publicly-traded test that apply for 2005 and subsequent taxable years, if persons (other than certain investment companies) each of whom, either directly or under applicable attribution rules, owns five percent or more of our common shares own in the aggregate fifty percent or more of our common shares, we could satisfy the publicly-traded test only if a sufficient portion of our shareholders were “qualifying shareholders” (generally, shareholders that are individuals residents in foreign countries which grant an exemption from tax that is equivalent to the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code) and complied with potentially onerous documentation requirements. Although we believe we currently satisfy all requirements for exemption, there may be a limited possibility that we may not satisfy the publicly-traded test for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were to fail to qualify for the statutory exemption, we expect that we would be subject to United States taxation at a rate of 4% levied on half of our gross shipping income attributable to transportation beginning or ending in the United States or, for example, United States tax of approximately $2.9 million in 2005. If our U.S. source income from international transportation did not qualify for exemption from U.S. federal taxation in 2005 or prior years, we would have a liability for tax, together with interest and penalties. In 2001 and prior years, in order for our U.S. source income from international transportation to qualify for exemption for U.S. federal income taxation, more than 50% of our shares, by value, must have been owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals resident in qualified foreign countries (generally, countries that provide an exemption from tax equivalent to that provided in Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code). While we believe that the ownership of our common shares was such that this requirement was satisfied, our common shares were listed on the Oslo Børs and many of our common shares were held by nominees or entities. Thus, we have not established that we will be able to demonstrate the required level of direct or indirect ownership by individuals resident in qualified foreign jurisdictions. If it were determined that the ownership requirement was not satisfied for a given year, we 17 Table of Contents would be liable for U.S. federal income tax at a 4% rate on our gross U.S. source income from international transportation for such years, together with related interest and penalties. If it were determined that the ownership requirement was not satisfied for, 2003 or 2004 or 2005, and we were unable to establish that we satisfied a publicly-traded test similar to that described above for such year, we would be liable for U.S. federal income tax at a 4% rate on our gross U.S. source income from international transportation for such year, together with related interest and penalties. During the years 1998 through 2005, approximately $275 million of our consolidated gross income was U.S. source income derived from international transportation beginning or ending in the United States. Therefore, if we did not qualify for the exemption from U.S. federal taxation described above for such years, we would owe U.S. tax for those years in an aggregate amount equal to approximately $11 million, plus any applicable interest and penalties. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company, a U.S. investor in our common shares would be subject to disadvantageous rules under the U.S. tax laws. If we were treated as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) in any year, U.S. holders of our common shares would be subject to unfavorable U.S. federal income tax treatment. We do not believe that we will be a PFIC in 2006 or in any future year. However, PFIC classification is a factual determination made annually and we could become a PFIC if the portion of our income derived from bareboat charters or other passive sources were to increase substantially. Moreover, the IRS may disagree with our position that time and voyage charters do not give rise to passive income for purposes of the PFIC rules. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will not be treated as a PFIC for 2006 or for any future year. Please see “Tax Considerations—United States Federal income tax considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations” herein for a description of the PFIC rules. Dividends we pay with respect to our common shares to United States holders would not be eligible to be taxed at reduced U.S. tax rates applicable to qualifying dividends if we were a passive foreign investment company or under other circumstances. For taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 2009, distributions on the common shares of non-U.S. companies that are treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are received by individuals generally will be eligible for taxation at capital gain rates if the common shares with respect to which the dividends are paid are readily tradable on an established securities market in the United States. This treatment will not be available to dividends we pay, however, if we qualify as a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend or the preceding taxable year, or to the extent that (i) the shareholder does not satisfy a holding period requirement that generally requires that the shareholder hold the shares on which the dividend is paid for more than 60 days during the 121-day period that begins 60 days before the date on which the shares become ex-dividend with respect to such dividend, (ii) the shareholder is under an obligation to make related payments with respect to substantially similar or related property or (iii) such dividend is taken into account as investment income under Section 163(d)(4)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code. We do not believe that we qualified as a PFIC for our last taxable year and, as described above, we do not expect to so qualify for our current or future taxable years. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. The charterers of our vessels pay us in U.S. dollars. While we incur most of our expenses in U.S. dollars, we have in the past incurred expenses in other currencies, most notably the euro. In 2004 and 2005, euro expenses accounted for approximately 25% of our total expenses. Declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro, or the other currencies in which we incur expenses, would increase the U.S. dollar cost of paying these expenses and thus would adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents The Tsakos Holdings Foundation and the Tsakos Group can exert considerable control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of December 31, 2005, companies controlled by the Tsakos Holdings Foundation or affiliated with the Tsakos Group own approximately 32% of our common shares. The Tsakos Holdings Foundation is a Liechtenstein foundation whose beneficiaries include persons and entities affiliated with the Tsakos family, charitable institutions and other unaffiliated persons and entities. The council which controls the Tsakos Holdings Foundation consists of five members, two of whom are members of the Tsakos family. The Tsakos Group is a group of companies controlled by members of the Tsakos family and is primarily involved in the management of ships. As long as the Tsakos Holdings Foundation and the Tsakos Group beneficially own a significant percentage of our common shares, each will have the power to influence the election of the members of our board of directors and the vote on substantially all other matters, including significant corporate actions. Risks Related To Our Common Shares We may not be able to pay cash dividends on our common shares as intended. In October of 2005, we paid a cash dividend of $1.00 per common share in relation to the year 2005. In April 2006, we intend to pay a further dividend of $1.10 per common share relating to 2005. Subject to the limitations discussed below, we currently intend to continue to pay regular cash dividends on our common shares of between one-quarter and one-half of our annual net income for the year in respect of which the dividends are paid. However, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends or as to the amount of any dividend. The payment and the amount will be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend, among other things, on available cash balances, anticipated cash needs, our results of operations, our financial condition, and any loan agreement restrictions binding us or our subsidiaries, as well as other relevant factors. For example, if we earned a capital gain on the sale of a vessel or newbuilding contract, we could determine to reinvest that gain instead of using it to pay dividends. Depending on our operating performance for that year, this could result in no dividend at all despite the existence of net income, or a dividend that represents a lower percentage of our net income. Any payment of cash dividends could slow our ability to renew and expand our fleet, and could cause delays in the completion of our current newbuilding program. Because we are a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries, our ability to pay dividends will depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay us dividends. In addition, the financing arrangements for indebtedness we incur in connection with our newbuilding program may further restrict our ability to pay dividends. In the event of any insolvency, bankruptcy or similar proceedings of a subsidiary, creditors of such subsidiary would generally be entitled to priority over us with respect to assets of the affected subsidiary. Investors in our common shares may be adversely affected if we are unable to or do not pay dividends as intended. Provisions in our Bye-laws, in our management agreement with Tsakos Energy Management and in our shareholder rights plan would make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Bye-laws provide for a staggered board of directors, blank check preferred stock, super majority voting requirements and other anti-takeover provisions, including restrictions on business combinations with interested persons and limitations on the voting rights of shareholders who acquire more than 15% of our common shares. In addition, Tsakos Energy Management would have the right to terminate our management agreement and seek liquidated damages if a board member were elected without having been approved by the current board. Furthermore, our shareholder rights plan authorizes issuance to existing shareholders of substantial numbers of preferred share rights and common shares in the event a third party seeks to acquire control of a substantial block of our common shares. These provisions could deter a third party from tendering for the purchase of some or all of our shares. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control of the ownership and management of our company, even if such transactions would have significant benefits to our shareholders. 19 Table of Contents Our shareholder rights plan could prevent you from receiving a premium over the market price for your common shares from a potential acquirer. Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan that authorizes issuance to our existing shareholders of substantial preferred share rights and additional common shares if any third party acquires 15% or more of our outstanding common shares or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15% of our common shares, in each case, in a transaction that our board of directors has not approved. The existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of our company without the support of our board of directors because, under these limited circumstances, all of our shareholders, other than the person or group that caused the rights to become exercisable, would become entitled to purchase our common shares at a discount. The existence of the rights plan could therefore deter potential acquirers and thereby reduce the likelihood that you will receive a premium for your common shares in an acquisition. See “Description of Capital Stock—Shareholder Rights Plan” for a description of our shareholder rights plan. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have. We are a Bermuda corporation. Our Memorandum of Association and Bye-laws and the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda govern our affairs. While many provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States, Bermuda law may not as clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, our directors and officers are not resident in the United States and all or substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests and enforcing judgments in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 