D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and the Japanese Wireless Telecommunications Industry With the introduction of Mobile Number Portability in Japan and the emergence of new service providers, competition is expected to intensify as the market environment changes. The increasing competition from other service providers and other technologies may limit our acquisition of new subscribers and retention of existing subscribers, may suppress ARPU and may increase our costs and expenses. As we prepare for such factors as the introduction of Mobile Number Portability in Japan this fiscal year ending March 31, 2007 and the emergence of new service providers, we are experiencing increasing competition in the Japanese wireless telecommunications industry. For example, other cellular service providers have introduced new products and services, including 3G handsets, music player handsets, music distribution services, 4 Table of Contents and fixed-rate services for voice communication limited to specified recipients, e-mail and the like. There are other cellular service providers that provide communication services based on technologies different from W-CDMA, which we have adopted for our 3G FOMA service, that currently provide faster data transmission speeds than our 3G services. Also, there are providers that now offer or may in the future offer services such as combined billing and aggregated point programs in conjunction with fixed line communications, which may be more convenient for customers. On the other hand, there may be increased competition due to the introduction of other new services and technologies, especially low priced and flat-rate services, fixed line or mobile IP phones, high-speed fixed line broadband Internet service and digital broadcasting and wireless LAN, etc., or an integration of these services. In addition to competition from other service providers and technologies, there are other factors increasing competition among mobile communications providers in Japan, such as saturation in the Japanese cellular market, changes to business and market structure, changes in the regulatory environment and increased rate competition. Under such circumstances, the number of net new subscribers we acquire each month may continue to decline in the future and may not reach the number we expect. Also, in addition to difficulty in acquiring new subscribers, we may not be able to maintain existing subscribers at expected levels, due to increased competition among cellular service providers in the areas of rates and services. Furthermore, as a result of severe competition for acquisition of subscribers, we may need to incur higher costs than we expected, such as distributor commissions and other expenses. In this severely competitive environment, in order to provide various advanced services and increase user convenience, we have made various rate revisions, such as the introduction “pake-hodai”, meaning “as many packets as you want”, in June 2004, which is a flat-rate packet transmission service for FOMA i-mode, the introduction of a new, unified rate plan for FOMA services and mova services in November 2005, which users find simple and easy to understand, and a new rate plan that enables users to apply “pake-hodai” with all FOMA services. However, we cannot be certain whether these measures will enable us to acquire new and maintain existing subscribers. Furthermore, if the trend of subscribers using “Family Discounts” and switching to flat-rate services increases more than we expect, our ARPU may decrease more than we expect, which may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operation. If the new services and forms of usage which we propose and introduce are not successful, our growth may be constrained. We view the expansion of AV traffic such as TV phone via 3G handsets, the development and penetration of new services useful in everyday life and business through i-mode FeliCa, such as credit services, and other services and technologies and increased revenue through the expansion of data communications as important to our future growth. However, a number of uncertainties may arise to prevent the development of these services and constrain our growth. In particular, we cannot be certain that: • we will be able to find the partners or content providers needed to provide the new services and forms of usage we are introducing and persuade a sufficient number of shops and other establishments to use i-mode FeliCa readers; • we will be able to provide planned new services and forms of usage as scheduled and keep costs needed for the penetration and expansion of such services within budget; • the services we offer and plan to offer will be attractive to current and potential subscribers and there will be sufficient demand for such services; • manufacturers and content providers will create and offer products, including handsets for our 3G system and handsets and contents for our 3G i-mode service at an appropriate price and on a timely basis; • our current or future data communication services including i-mode and other services will be attractive to existing and potential subscribers and achieve continued or new growth; 5 Table of Contents • demand in the market for mobile handset functionality will be as we expect and as a result, our handset procurement costs will be reduced; and • we will be able to commence services with improved data communication speed enabled by HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access, a high speed packet transmission technology utilizing W-CDMA) technology as we plan. If the development of our new services or forms of usage is limited, it may have a material affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The introduction or change of various laws or regulations or the application of such laws or regulations to us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Japanese telecommunications industry has been undergoing regulatory reform in many areas including rate regulation. Because we operate on radio spectrum allocated by the government, the mobile telecommunications industry in which we operate is particularly affected by the regulatory environment. Various governmental bodies have been recommending or considering changes that could affect the mobile telecommunications industry, and there may be continued reforms including the introduction or revision of laws or regulations that could have an adverse effect on us. These include: • revision of the spectrum allocation system such as reallocation of spectrum and introduction of an auction system; • measures to open up Internet platforms and segment platform functions such as authentication and payment collection to other operators; • rules that could require us to open our i-mode service to all content providers and Internet service providers or that could prevent us from setting or collecting i-mode content fees or putting i-mode service on cellular phone handsets as an initial setting; • measures to enhance competition that would restrict our business operations in the telecommunications industry; • regulation to prohibit or restrict certain content or transactions, or mobile Internet services such as i-mode; • measures which would introduce new costs such as the designation of mobile phone communications as a universal service which would require us to provide service in all regions in Japan and other changes to the current universal service fund system • regulations to increase handset competition such as the abolishment of financial incentives for sales of mobile handsets and SIM (Subscriber Identity Module) regulations; and • fair competition measures relating to MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) such as the compulsory lease of networks. It is difficult to predict with certainty if any of the above changes will be proposed to the relevant laws and regulations and, if they are made, the extent to which our business will be affected. However, the implementation of one or more of the changes described above, or other changes to laws and regulations, could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Limitations on the amount of frequency spectrum and facilities available to us may make it difficult for us to maintain and improve the quality of our services and the level of our customer satisfaction. One of the principal limitations on a cellular communication network’s capacity is the available radio frequency spectrum it can use. We have limited spectrum and facilities available to us to provide our services. As a result, in certain parts of metropolitan Tokyo and Osaka, such as areas near major train stations, our cellular communication network operates at or near the maximum capacity of its available spectrum during peak periods, 6 Table of Contents which may cause reduced service quality. In addition, the quality of the services we provide may also decrease due to the limited processing capacity of our base stations and switching facilities during peak usage periods, if our subscriber base dramatically increases or the volume of content such as images and music provided through our i-mode service is significantly expanded. Also, in relation to our 3G service and packet transmission flat fee service for 3G i-mode, an increase in the number of subscribers and traffic volume by such subscribers may go substantially beyond our projections, we may not be able to process such traffic with our existing facilities and our quality of service may decline. Furthermore, with an increasing number of subscribers and traffic volume, our quality of service may decline if we cannot get the necessary allocation of spectrum from the government for the smooth operation of our business. We may not be able to avoid reduced quality of services despite our continued efforts to improve the efficiency of our use of spectrum through technology and to acquire new spectrum. If we are not able to successfully address such problems in a timely manner, we may experience constraints on the growth of our mobile communications services or lose subscribers to our competitors, which may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee overseas operators will introduce the W-CDMA technology and mobile multimedia services we currently use in our 3G system, which would adversely affect our ability to offer our international services to our subscribers. For our 3G system, we currently use Wideband Code Division Multiple Access, or W-CDMA, technology. W-CDMA technology is one of the global standards for cellular telecommunications technology approved by the International Telecommunications Union, or ITU, as part of its efforts to standardize 3G cellular technology through the issuance of guidelines known as IMT-2000. We may be able to offer our services, such as global roaming, on a worldwide basis if enough other mobile operators adopt handsets and network facilities based on W-CDMA standard technology which are compatible with ours. We expect that the companies we have invested in overseas, our overseas strategic partners and many other mobile operators will adopt this technology. Also, we have technology alliances with overseas operators in relation to i-mode service and we are aggressively promoting the spread and expansion of i-mode service by overseas operators. However, if a sufficient number or other mobile operators do not adopt W-CDMA technology or there is a delay in the introduction of W-CDMA technology, we may not be able to offer global roaming services as expected and we may not be able to offer our subscribers the convenience of overseas service. Also, in the case if adoption of W-CDMA technology abroad is not conducted sufficiently and the number of i-mode subscribers among our strategic partners and the usage of i-mode service by those subscribers does not increase sufficiently, we may not realize the benefits of economies of scale we currently expect in terms of purchasing network facilities and offering of handsets and contents developed for our services at appropriate prices. Also, we cannot be sure that handset manufacturers or manufacturers of network equipment will be able to appropriately and promptly adjust their handsets and network equipment if we need to change the handsets or network we currently use due to a change in W-CDMA technology as a result of activities conducted by standard-setting organizations. If W-CDMA technology and i-mode services do not develop as we expect, and we are not able to improve the quality of our overseas services or enjoy the benefits of global economies of scale, that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that our domestic and international investments, alliances and collaborations and investments in new businesses will produce sufficient opportunities or returns. One of the major components of our strategy is to increase our corporate value through domestic and overseas investments, alliances and collaborations. We have entered into alliances and collaborations with other 7 Table of Contents companies and organizations overseas which we believe could help us achieve this objective. We are also promoting this strategy by investing, entering into alliances with and collaborating with domestic companies and investing in new business areas. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or enhance the value or performance of our past or future investments, or that we will receive the returns or benefits we expect from these investments, alliances and collaborations. Our investments in new business areas outside of the mobile telecommunication business may be accompanied by challenges beyond our expectations, as we have little experience in such new areas of business. In recent years, the companies in which we have invested have experienced a variety of negative developments, including severe competition, increased debt burdens, significant volatility in share prices and financial difficulties. To the extent that these investments are accounted for by the equity method and to the extent that the investee companies have net losses, our financial results will be adversely affected by our pro rata portion of these losses. If there is a loss in the value of our investment in any investee company and such loss in value is other than a temporary decline, we may be required to adjust the book value and recognize an impairment loss for such investment. Also, a business combination or other similar transaction involving any of our investee companies could require us to realize impairment loss for any decline in the value of investment in such investee company. In either event, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As electronic payment capabilities and many other new features are built into our cellular handsets, and the services of third parties are provided through our cellular handsets, problems may arise in the event that handsets malfunction, contain defects, are lost or fail to complete services provided by other operators. Various functions are mounted on the mobile handsets we provide, and if we cannot appropriately deal with technological problems that may arise with respect to current or future handsets or the malfunction or loss of handsets, our credibility may decline and our corporate image may be damaged, leading to an increase in contract cancellations or an increase in expenses for indemnity payments to subscribers and our financial condition or results of operations may be affected. New issues may arise which are different from those related to mobile communications services which we have been providing, especially with i-mode handsets with FeliCa capabilities that can be used for electronic payment and credit transactions. Events that may lead to a decrease in our credibility and corporate image include the following: • Breakdown, defect and malfunction of our handsets; • Loss of information, e-money or points due to a breakdown of handsets or other factors; • Illegal use of information, e-money, credit functions and points by third parties due to a loss or theft of handsets; • Illegal access to and use of user records and balances accumulated on handsets by third-parties; and • Inadequate and inappropriate management of e-money, credit functions or points by companies with which we make alliances or collaborate. Social issues that may arise from misuse or misunderstanding of our products and services may adversely affect our credibility or corporate image. We may face an increase in cancellations of existing subscriptions and difficulty in acquiring new subscribers, due to decreased credibility of our products and services and damaged corporate image caused by inappropriate use of our products and services by unscrupulous subscribers. Unsolicited bulk e-mail, for instance, is a problem for our i-mode service. Despite our extensive efforts to address this issue to protect our subscribers from incurring any economic disadvantage caused by unsolicited bulk e-mails, including notifying to our subscribers via various brochures, providing unsolicited bulk e-mail filtering function with our handsets and pursuing actions against companies which distribute large amounts of 8 Table of Contents such unsolicited bulk e-mails, the problem has not yet been rooted out. Also, recently, a different kind of unsolicited bulk e-mail using “short-mail” and “SMS (short message service)” we provide in addition to i-mode, is becoming an issue. If our subscribers receive a large amount of unsolicited e-mails, it may cause a decrease in customer satisfaction and damage our corporate image, leading to a reduction in the number of our i-mode subscribers. Mobile phones have been used in crimes such as “it’s me” fraud, in which callers request an emergency bank remittance pretending to be a relative. To combat these misuses of our services, we have introduced various measures such as more strict identification confirmation at points of purchase, and furthermore ended new contracts for pre-paid mobile phones as of the end of March 2005 because pre-paid mobile phones are easier to use in crimes. However, in the event criminal usage increases, mobile phones may be regarded as a problem and lead to an increase in cancellation of contracts. In addition, as our handsets and services become more sophisticated, new issues may arise when subscribers are charged fees for packet transmission at levels higher than they are aware of as a result of using handsets without fully recognizing over use of packet transmission in terms of frequency and volume. Also, inappropriate use of our mobile handsets with built-in camera has become a social issue such as taking photos of an article from a magazine in a bookstore or taking pictures at art galleries and museums where picture taking is prohibited. Furthermore, there are issues concerning manners for phone usage in public places such as in trains and occurrence of car accidents caused by the use of mobile phones while driving. These issues may similarly damage our corporate image. To date, we believe that we have properly addressed these social issues surrounding mobile phones. However, it is uncertain whether we will be able to continue addressing those issues appropriately in the future as well and when we fail to do so, we may experience an increase in cancellation of existing subscriber contracts or fail to acquire new subscribers as expected and it may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inappropriate handling of subscriber information by our employees or subcontractors would damage our credibility and corporate image. In April 2005, the Law concerning the protection of personal information (the “Personal Information Protection Law”) came into force and protection of personal information became an important issue at companies which handle personal information. We hold information on our subscribers, and to appropriately and promptly address the Personal Information Protection Law, we have set up an “information security department” to put in place comprehensive security management across the company, such as thorough management of subscriber information, employee education, supervision of subcontractors and by strengthening technological security. However, in the event an information leak occurs despite these security measures, our credibility may be significantly damaged and we may experience an increase in cancellation of subscriber contracts, an increase in indemnity cost and slower increase in additional subscribers and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain licenses, etc., or other rights to use the intellectual property rights of third parties that are crucial to our business, we may not be able to offer certain technology, products, or services. In addition, our group may be liable for damages due to infringement of the intellectual property rights of other companies. In order for the company to carry out the business, it is necessary to obtain licenses, etc., or other rights to use the intellectual property rights of third parties. Currently, our group is obtaining the licenses etc. from the holder of the right concerned by concluding the license agreement etc. We will obtain the licenses etc. from the holders of the rights concerned if others have the right of those intellectual property rights, etc. which are necessary for us to operate a business in future. However, in case that we can not come on an agreement among 9 Table of Contents holders of the rights concerned or mutual agreement concerning the granted right can not be maintained afterwards, there is a possibility that specific technology, product or service of our group can not be provided. Also, if our group receives the insistence of having violated the right of the intellectual property right etc. from others, we may take a lot of time and cost for the solution, and if the others’ concerned insistences are admitted, we may owe the liability for damage etc. because of the violation of a right concerned. Earthquakes, power shortages, malfunction of facilities, software bugs and viruses, hacking, unauthorized access or cyber attacks may cause system failures in our cellular network, handsets or other networks required for the provision of service, disrupting our ability to offer our services to our subscribers and damaging our group’s credibility and corporate image. We have built a nationwide network including base stations, antennas, switching centers and transmission lines and provide mobile communication service using this network. In order to operate our network systems in a safe and stable manner, we have various measures in place, such as duplicate systems. However, despite these measures, our system could fail for various reasons including hardware problems, network damage caused by earthquakes, power shortages, typhoons, floods, terrorism and similar phenomenon and events. These system failures can require an extended time for repair and as a result, it may lead to decreased revenue and increased repair costs and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. There have been instances in which millions of computers worldwide were infected by viruses though the Internet. Similar incidents could occur on our mobile communications network. If such a virus entered our network or handsets through such means as hacking, unauthorized access, or otherwise, our system could fail and our mobile phones become unusable. In such an instance, the credibility of our network and customer satisfaction could decrease significantly. Although we have enhanced our security system to block unauthorized access and remote downloading in order to provide for unexpected events, such precautions may not make our system fully prepared for every event. In the event we are unable to properly respond to any such events, our credibility corporate image may be reduced, and we may experience a decrease in revenues as well as significant repair cost expenses which may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our network could be affected by software bugs or human errors which are not the result of malfeasance, but also result in a system failure. Concerns about adverse effect on health by wireless telecommunications may increase. Media and other reports have suggested that electric wave emissions from wireless handsets and other wireless equipment may adversely affect the health of mobile phone users and others, including by causing cancer and vision loss and interfering with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers, and also may present increased health risks for users who are children. While these reports have not been conclusive, and although the findings in such reports are disputed, the actual or perceived risk of wireless telecommunications devices to the health of users could adversely affect us through increased cancellation by existing subscribers, reduced subscriber growth, reduced usage per subscriber or litigation, and may also potentially adversely affect our corporate image, financial condition and results of operations. The perceived risk of wireless devices may have been elevated by certain wireless carriers and handset manufactures affixing labels to their handsets showing levels of electric wave emissions or warnings about possible health risks. Research and studies are ongoing and we are actively attempting to confirm the safety of wireless telecommunications, but there can be no assurance that further research and studies will not demonstrate a relation between electric wave emissions and health problems. Furthermore, although the electric wave emissions of our cellular handsets and base stations comply with the electromagnetic safety guidelines of Japan, including guidelines regarding the specific absorption rate of electric waves, and the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection, the guidelines of which are regarded as an international safety standard, the Electromagnetic Compatibility Conference of Japan has 10 Table of Contents confirmed that some electronic medical devices are affected by the electromagnetic interference from cellular phones as well as other portable radio transmitters. As a result, Japan has adopted a policy to restrict the use of cellular services inside medical facilities. We are working to ensure that our subscribers are aware of these restrictions when using cellular phones. There is a possibility that modifications to regulations, new regulations or restrictions could limit our ability to expand our market or our subscriber base or otherwise adversely affect us. Our parent, NTT, could exercise influence that may not be in the interests of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2006, NTT owned 62.2% of our outstanding voting shares. While being subject to the conditions for fair competition established by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, or MPT, in April 1992, NTT retains the right to control our management as a majority shareholder, including the right to appoint our directors. Currently, although we conduct our day-to-day operations independently of NTT and its other subsidiaries, certain important matters are discussed with, or reported to, NTT. As such, NTT could take actions that are in its best interests, which may not be in the interests of our other shareholders. Risks Relating to the Shares and the ADSs Future sales of our shares by NTT or by us may adversely affect the trading price of our shares and ADSs. As of March 31, 2006, NTT owned 62.2% of our outstanding voting shares. Under Japanese law, NTT, like any other shareholder, generally is able to dispose of our shares freely on the Tokyo Stock Exchange or otherwise. In addition, various governmental bodies have recommended that NTT be required to decrease its ownership percentage in our company. NTT’s position announced in its release in October 2001 was that decisions on NTT’s investment ratio of our company would continue to be considered from the standpoint of maximizing its shareholders profits, taking into account operational necessities and stock market trends. Additionally, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue 141,320,000 additional shares generally without any shareholder approval. The sale or issuance or the potential for sale or issuance of such shares could have an adverse impact on the market price of our shares. There are restrictions on your ability to withdraw shares from the depositary receipt facility. Each ADS represents the right to receive 1/100th of a share of common stock. Therefore, pursuant to the terms of the deposit agreement with our depositary, The Bank of New York, in order to withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs must surrender for cancellation and withdrawal of shares, ADRs evidencing 100 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR will bear a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs will be unable to withdraw fractions of shares from the depositary or receive any cash settlement in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares. In addition, although the ADSs themselves may be transferred in any lots pursuant to the deposit agreement, the ability to trade the underlying shares may be limited. Holders of ADRs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADRs do not have the same rights as shareholders and accordingly cannot exercise rights of shareholders against us. The Bank of New York, as depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs, and therefore only it can exercise the rights of shareholders in connection with the deposited shares. In certain cases, we may not ask The Bank of New York to ask holders of ADSs for instructions as to how they wish their shares voted. Even if we ask The Bank of New York to ask holders of ADSs for such instructions, it may not be possible for The Bank of New York to obtain these instructions from ADS holders in time for The Bank of New York to vote in accordance with such instructions. The Bank of New York is only obliged to try, as far as practical, and subject to Japanese law and our Articles of Incorporation, to vote or have its agents vote the deposited shares as holders of ADSs instruct. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine the accounting books and records of the company, or exercise appraisal rights. 11 Table of Contents U.S. investors may have difficulty in serving process or enforcing a judgment against us or our directors, executive officers or corporate auditors. We are a limited liability, joint stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of our directors, executive officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. All or substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. Courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from rights of shareholders in jurisdictions within the United States. Our Articles of Incorporation, our Board of Directors’ regulations and the Japanese Commercial Code govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may be different from those that would apply to a company incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction within the United States. 