Item 1A. Risk Factors. This annual report, including the preceding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the following: We depend on our sales to and contracts with General Motors for a substantial portion of our revenue. During fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, our revenue related to product sales to and contracts with General Motors and its affiliates represented approximately 46%, 77% and 87.4%, respectively, of our total revenue for these years. A substantial portion of our revenues with General Motors is for second-stage assembly and compressed natural gas programs. All of the OEM automotive supply sales of the Tecstar Automotive Group business for the three years ended April 30, 2005 were to General Motors. Our arrangements with General Motors generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that General Motors and its affiliates will continue to purchase our products. Our second stage assembly agreements with General Motors expired in April 2006. Our bi-fuel and compressed natural gas fuel systems agreement with General Motors is scheduled to expire in July 2006. If General Motors does not award us new second stage assembly agreements and does not extend our bi-fuel and compressed natural gas fuel system agreement or were to otherwise cease doing business with us or significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us and we are not able to replace the lost revenues with business from other Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) or our own direct to market business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. To continue to compete effectively for General Motors’ business, we must continue to satisfy its pricing, service, technology and increasingly stringent quality and reliability requirements. Further, General Motors continues to put significant pressure on its suppliers to reduce costs on an annual basis. While we intend to focus our efforts on retaining and winning business from General Motors, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in doing so. To the extent we do not maintain our existing level of business with General Motors, we will need to attract new customers. To that end, we intend to aggressively pursue second stage assembly and dual-invoice programs from other domestic and foreign OEM’s, but we cannot assure you that we will succeed in getting such business. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our General Motors business or expanding our revenue base, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Quantum Fuel Systems business revenue depends to a significant extent on our relationship with General Motors and General Motors’ commitment to the commercialization of fuel cell vehicles. Our strategic alliance with General Motors became effective upon our spin-off from IMPCO. Our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if General Motors were to terminate its relationship with us. Our ability to sell our products to the fuel cell automotive OEM markets depends to a significant extent upon General Motors’ and its partners’ worldwide sales and distribution network and service capabilities. Any change in strategy by General Motors with respect to fuel cells could harm our business by reducing or eliminating a substantial portion of our sales, whether as a result of market, economic or competitive pressures, including any decision by General Motors: • to alter its commitment to our fuel storage, fuel delivery and electronic control technology in favor of other competing technologies; • to exit the automotive OEM alternative fuel or fuel cell markets; • to develop fuel cells or alternative fuel systems targeted at different application markets from ours; or • to focus on different energy product solutions. 23 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to our agreement with General Motors, we are required to spend $4.0 million annually on joint research and development projects directed by General Motors over a ten-year term that commenced in July 2002. Since this commitment was waived or partially waived by General Motors for calendar years 2003, 2004 and 2005, we anticipate that this commitment will be waived or partially waived in the future, but we cannot assure you that General Motors will continue to waive it in full or in part in the future. The annual commitment under our agreement with General Motors could be financially burdensome and may impact our ability to achieve profitability in the future. Where intellectual property is developed pursuant to this alliance, we have committed to provide certain exclusive or non-exclusive licenses in favor of General Motors, and in some cases the developed intellectual property will be jointly owned. As a result of such licenses, we may be limited or precluded, as the case may be, in the exploitation of such intellectual property rights. Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers and we expect this trend to continue. During fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, in addition to General Motors, revenue related to sales of our products to Toyota Motor Corporation and its affiliates represented approximately 44%, 11% and 1%, respectively. Our customer arrangements generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on the growth of the specialty vehicle and hydrogen economy markets. Our future success depends on the continued expansion of the specialty vehicle and hydrogen markets. The specialty vehicle market has grown significantly over the past several years, especially with automotive manufacturers developing second-stage assembly programs for popular vehicle platforms. Our specialty vehicle and second stage assembly programs primarily involve upfitting and modification of sport utility vehicles, pick-up trucks and high performance vehicles. The market for these types of vehicles are influenced by and our sales may be negatively impacted by a number of factors some of which include the level of consumer disposable income, OEM plant shutdowns, model year changeovers, interest rates, and gasoline prices. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the markets for fuel cells or hydrogen-based vehicles will gain broad acceptance or, if they do, that they will result in increased sales of our advanced fuel system products. Our business depends on auto manufacturers’ timing for pre-production development programs and commercial production. If there are delays in the advancement of OEM fuel cell technologies or in our OEM customers’ internal plans for commercialization, our financial results could be adversely affected. We expect our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group to result in benefits to the combined company, but we may not realize those benefits due to challenges associated with integrating the companies. The success of our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group will depend in large part on the success of our management in integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the two companies. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of Tecstar Automotive Group into our other operations or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the merger could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated operations problems, expenses, liabilities and diversion of management’s attention. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • successfully integrating each company’s operations, technologies, products and services; 24 Table of Contents • demonstrating to the customers of each of Quantum and Tecstar Automotive Group that the merger will not result in adverse changes in business focus; • coordinating and integrating system and power train engineering activities to fully leverage each company’s capabilities; • coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; • preserving distribution, marketing or other important relationships of both Quantum and Tecstar Automotive Group and resolving potential conflicts that may arise; • assimilating the personnel of both companies and integrating the business cultures of both companies; • realizing the expected cost savings associated with combining the companies in the merger; • maintaining employee morale and motivation; and • reducing the administrative and public company costs associated with Tecstar Automotive Group’s operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate our operations in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger to the extent or in the time frame anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies include complementary revenue streams, a strengthened position as a full service Tier 1 OEM supplier, an enhanced ability to leverage each company’s power train integration capabilities, a broader organization and an expanded geographic footprint, a stronger operational base, enriched cross-selling opportunities, and an increased profile within the financial community. These anticipated benefits and synergies are based on assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition to the potential integration challenges discussed above, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted to the extent that Quantum’s or Tecstar Automotive Group’s relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or strategic partners is adversely affected as a consequence of the merger, or, by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations or implement workforce reductions. Furthermore, financial projections based on the same assumptions may not be correct if the underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. Our financial results could suffer if the goodwill and other intangible assets we acquired in our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group become impaired, or as a result of costs associated with our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group. As a result of the merger, approximately 53% of our total assets are goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $102.1 million is goodwill and $46.7 million is other intangibles, a substantial portion of which is customer related intangibles related to our relationship with General Motors. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Other intangibles are also reviewed at least annually or more frequently, if certain conditions exist, and may be amortized. When we perform future impairment tests, the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and would therefore require adjustment. Such adjustment would result in a charge to our operating income in that period, which would likely harm our financial results. Additionally, further adjustments for impairment could be required in subsequent periods. In addition, we believe that we may incur charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, in subsequent quarters after the merger was completed, to reflect costs associated with integrating Quantum and Tecstar Automotive Group. It is possible that we will incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the merger. 25 Table of Contents We could become subject to stockholder litigation associated with our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group and the restatement of our financial statements. Stockholders of companies involved in mergers sometimes file lawsuits that allege, among other things, improprieties in the manner in which the merger was approved or executed. Also, stockholder’s sometimes file lawsuits when a company restates its financial statements. On June 14, 2006, we filed with the SEC an amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for our fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 and an amended Quarterly Report for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2006. We are not aware of any claims or potential claims with respect to our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group or financial statement restatement, but such claims could arise in the future. Any such claims, whether or not resolved in our favor, could divert our management and other resources from the operation of our business and otherwise result in unexpected and substantial expenses that adversely and materially impact our operating results. The cyclical nature of automotive production and sales, particularly those of General Motors, could adversely affect our Tecstar Automotive Group business. Tecstar Automotive Group’s OEM automotive supply sales are directly impacted by the health of the automotive industry and, in particular, General Motors’ market share, particularly in the market for pick-up trucks and sport utility vehicles. Automobile production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic and social conditions and other factors, including consumer spending, interest rates, gasoline prices, environmental concerns, foreign oil dependency concerns and customer preferences. In addition, automotive production can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements, and other factors, not only at the OEM level but also at the supplier level. For example, a strike by the union workforce at Delphi could have a crippling effect on General Motor’s production, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, OEMs periodically reduce production or close plants for periods of up to several months for model changeovers. Declines in sales in the automotive market, or production cutbacks and plant shut downs, particularly at General Motors, could have an adverse impact on our Tecstar Automotive Group business. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow that may continue into the foreseeable future. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. If we fail to execute our strategy to achieve and maintain profitability in the future, investors could lose confidence in the value of our common stock, which could cause our stock price to decline, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, and could adversely affect our ability to meet the financial covenants contained in our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with our financial institution. We have spent significant funds to develop and refine our technologies and services. We expect to continue to invest in research and development, and this investment could outpace revenue growth, which would hinder our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group may not create the benefits and results we expect, adversely affecting our strategy to achieve profitability. To achieve profitability, we will also need to, among other things, effectively integrate Tecstar Automotive Group’s business, increase our revenue base and realize economies of scale. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. We may never be able to introduce commercially viable hydrogen products and systems. We do not know whether or when we will successfully introduce commercially viable fuel storage, fuel delivery or electronic control products for the hydrogen market. We have produced and are currently demonstrating a number of test and evaluation systems and are continuing efforts to decrease the costs of these systems and to improve their overall functionality and efficiency. However, we must complete substantial additional research and development on these systems before we can introduce commercially viable hydrogen products and systems. Even if we are able to do so, these efforts will still depend upon the success of other companies in producing related and necessary products for use in conjunction with commercially viable fuel cells, hybrids and other hydrogen applications. 26 Table of Contents A mass market for hydrogen fuel cell products and systems may never develop or may take longer to develop than anticipated. Fuel cell and hydrogen systems represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale or whether OEMs will incorporate these technologies into their products. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for hydrogen powered transportation applications, we may be unable to recover our expenditures to develop our fuel systems for hydrogen applications and may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, any of which could negatively impact our business. Estimates for the development of a mass market for fuel cell products and systems have lengthened in recent years. Many factors that are beyond our control may have a negative effect on the development of a mass market for fuel cells and our fuel systems for hydrogen applications. These factors include the following: • cost competitiveness and physical size of fuel cell systems and “balance of plant” components; • availability, future costs and safety of hydrogen, natural gas and other potential fuel cell fuels; • consumer acceptance of hydrogen or alternative fuel products; • government funding and support for the development of hydrogen vehicles and hydrogen fuel infrastructure; • the willingness of OEMs to replace current technology; • consumer perceptions of hydrogen systems; • regulatory requirements; and • emergence of newer, breakthrough technologies and products within the hydrogen industry. Evolving customer design requirements, product specifications and testing procedures could cause order delays or cancellations. We have experienced delays in shipping our products as a result of changing customer specifications and testing procedures. Due to the dynamic nature of hydrogen fuel cell technology, changes in specifications are common and may continue to result in delayed shipments, order cancellations or higher production costs. Evolving design requirements or product specifications may adversely affect our business or financial results. Higher gasoline prices, higher interest rates and/or decreases in the level of disposable consumer income could adversely affect the demand for the products of our Tecstar Automotive Group business. Our Tecstar Automotive Group is heavily dependent on consumer demand for large trucks and SUVs. Continued increases in the price of gasoline could reduce demand for these types of products. Additionally, since many consumers finance their purchase of vehicles, the availability of financing and level of interest rates can affect a consumer’s purchasing decision. A decline in general economic conditions, consumer confidence or the level of disposable consumer income would be expected to adversely affect the sales of our Tecstar Automotive Group business. Our ability to design and manufacture fuel systems for fuel cell, hydrogen and hybrid applications that can be integrated into OEM products will be critical to our business. We currently offer packaged fuel systems, which include tanks, brackets, electronics, software and other components required to allow these products to operate in fuel cells, hybrids, or other alternative fuel applications. Customers for these systems require that these products meet strict OEM standards that can vary by jurisdiction. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in increased development, manufacturing, warranty and administrative costs. A significant increase in these costs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to meet OEM specifications on a timely basis, our existing 27 Table of Contents or future relationships with OEMs may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To be commercially viable, our fuel cell products and systems must be integrated into products manufactured by OEMs. We can offer no assurance that OEMs will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our fuel cell products and systems. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by OEMs could adversely affect the market for our fuel cell products and systems and our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third-party suppliers for the supply of materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture fuel systems for our fuel cell applications and other products. In particular, components that we integrate in our hydrogen fuel regulation systems need to be compatible with hydrogen. To the extent materials need to be tested and replaced to ensure compatibility, we may experience delays in shipping our hydrogen fuel regulation systems or complete packaged fuel systems. Additionally, a delay in the delivery of components or materials used in our products, such as high-strength fiber, from our current suppliers or a change to other suppliers would likely delay the production of our products that use those components or materials, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The terms and enforceability of many of our strategic partner relationships are uncertain. We have entered into relationships with strategic partners for design, product development and distribution of our existing products, and products under development, some of which may not have been documented by a definitive agreement. Where definitive agreements govern the relationships between us and our partners, the terms and conditions of many of these agreements allow for termination by the partners. Termination of any of these agreements could adversely affect our ability to design, develop and distribute these products to the marketplace. In many cases, these strategic relationships are governed by a memorandum of understanding or a letter of intent. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully negotiate and execute definitive agreements with any of these potential partners, and failure to do so may effectively terminate the relevant relationship. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition. Our products face and will continue to face significant competition. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources, are currently engaged in the development of products and technologies that are similar to, or may be competitive with, certain of our products and technologies. Because the fuel cell has the potential to replace existing power sources, competition for fuel cell products will come from current power technologies, from improvements to current power technologies and from new alternative power technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fueled vehicles may cause OEMs to find it advantageous to develop and produce their own fuel management equipment rather than purchase the equipment from us. In addition, greater acceptance of alternative fuel engines or fuel cells may result in new competitors. Furthermore, there are competitors, including OEMs, working on developing other fuel cell technologies in our targeted markets. A large number of corporations, national laboratories and universities in the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan possess fuel cell technology and/or are actively engaged in the development and manufacture of fuel cells. Each of these competitors has the potential to capture market share in various markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our position in the industry and our business, results of operations 28 Table of Contents and financial condition. Many of our competitors have financial resources, customer bases, businesses or other resources which give them significant competitive advantages. We depend on our intellectual property, and our failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. Our failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of exclusivity or the right to use our technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our freedom to use certain technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation, and/or be enjoined from using such intellectual property. We have not conducted formal evaluations to confirm that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology and products do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If infringement were to occur, our development, manufacturing, sales and distribution of such technology or products may be disrupted. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is subject to complex factual and legal issues that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any of the patents we have filed or other patents that third parties license to us will not be invalidated (especially in light of the potentially adverse implications of our abandoned reissue application and agreement with Dynetek Industries Ltd. in which we agreed not to assert claims with respect to our in-tank regulator patent), circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of claim coverage we seek, if issued at all. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain foreign countries. For instance, it may be difficult for us to enforce certain of our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have inappropriately acquired interests in our intellectual property rights by filing unauthorized trademark applications in foreign countries to register our marks because of their familiarity with our business in the United States. Some of our proprietary intellectual property is not protected by any patent or patent application, and, despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. We have generally sought to protect such proprietary intellectual property in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors’ rights agreements with strategic partners and employees, although such agreements have not been put in place in every instance. We cannot guarantee that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property or proprietary rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Furthermore, the steps we have taken and may take in the future may not prevent misappropriation of our solutions or technologies, particularly in respect of officers and employees who are no longer employed by us or in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain intellectual property may negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depends in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary intellectual property used in our principal products. This may be achieved, in part, by prosecuting claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and by defending claims of intellectual property infringement brought by others. While we are not currently engaged in any material intellectual property 29 Table of Contents litigation, in the future we may commence lawsuits against others if we believe they have infringed our rights, or we may become subject to lawsuits alleging that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. For example, to the extent that we have previously incorporated third-party technology and/or know-how into certain products for which we do not have sufficient license rights, we could incur substantial litigation costs, be forced to pay substantial damages or royalties, or even be forced to cease sales in the event any owner of such technology or know-how were to challenge our subsequent sale of such products (and any progeny thereof). In addition, to the extent that we discover or have discovered third-party patents that may be applicable to products or processes in development, we may need to take steps to avoid claims of possible infringement, including obtaining non-infringement or invalidity opinions and, when necessary, re-designing or re-engineering products. However, we cannot assure you that these precautions will allow us to successfully avoid infringement claims. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affect the development of sales of the challenged product or intellectual property and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe upon other patented intellectual property; • expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; • discontinue processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringing intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available upon reasonable terms, if at all. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have limited experience manufacturing fuel systems for fuel cell and hydrogen applications on a commercial basis. To date, we have limited experience manufacturing fuel systems for fuel cell and hydrogen applications on a commercial basis. In order to produce fuel systems at affordable prices, we will have to produce fuel systems through high volume automated processes. We do not know whether we will be able to develop efficient, automated, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards, or production volumes required to successfully mass market our fuel systems for fuel cell and hydrogen applications. Even if we are successful in developing our high volume manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedules or to satisfy the requirements of customers. Our failure to develop such manufacturing processes and capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to achieve commercialization of our products and technologies and to develop facilities for mass production of these products. Our future cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including completion of our product development activities, our ability to commercialize our fuel systems for fuel cell applications and market acceptance of our products. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue development programs and develop a manufacturing infrastructure for our products. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds to achieve commercialization of our products and to develop facilities for mass production of those products. We do not know whether we will be able to secure additional funding on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities or additional acquisitions of entities 30 Table of Contents with cash reserves, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders will be reduced. In addition, pursuant to restrictions in our agreement with General Motors, we will generally need General Motors’ consent prior to issuing our capital stock in a private placement, and we can provide no assurances that such consent can be obtained. If adequate funds are not available to satisfy long-term capital requirements, we may be required to limit operations in a manner inconsistent with our development and commercialization plans, which could adversely affect operations in future periods. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones. We have product development programs that are in the pre-commercial stage. The success of each product development program is highly dependent on our correct interpretation of commercial market requirements, and our translation of those requirements into applicable product specifications and appropriate development milestones. If we have misinterpreted market requirements, or if the requirements of the market change, we may develop a product that does not meet the cost and performance requirements for a successful commercial product. In addition, if we do not meet the required development milestones, our commercialization schedules could be delayed, which could result in potential purchasers of these products declining to purchase additional systems or choosing to purchase alternative technologies. Delayed commercialization schedules may also impact our cash flow, which could require increased funding. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and maintain key personnel. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including engineers, technicians, machinists and management personnel. For example, our research and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Competition for highly skilled engineers is extremely intense, and we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. In connection with our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group, we may face challenges in integrating the personnel and management of our companies. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer or any other officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executive officers or key personnel, or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel, could delay product development cycles or otherwise materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by labor disputes. Labor disputes may occur at OEM and critical OEM supplier facilities, which may adversely affect our business, particularly our Tecstar Automotive Group business. As our Tecstar Automotive Group business becomes more dependent on vehicle conversion programs with OEMs, we will become increasingly dependent on OEM production and the associated labor forces at OEM and critical OEM supplier sites. Labor unions represent most of the labor forces at OEM facilities and critical OEM suppliers. Labor disputes could occur at OEM or critical supplier facilities, which could adversely impact our direct OEM product sales. Additionally, we may be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages from time to time. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to increased warranty claims due to longer warranty periods. In response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. 31 Table of Contents Our business may be subject to product liability claims or product recalls, which could be expensive and could result in a diversion of management’s attention. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of products and systems to automotive OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Our other products may also be subject to product liability claims or recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our insurance may not be sufficient. We carry insurance that we consider adequate in regard to the nature of the covered risks and the costs of coverage. We are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. Our business may become subject to future product certification regulations, which may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and internationally. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. The failure to comply with these certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or in civil or criminal penalties. We anticipate that regulatory bodies will establish certification procedures and impose regulations on fuel cell enabling technologies, which may impair our ability to distribute, install and service these systems. Any new government regulation that affects our advanced fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and servicing of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and harm our results of operations. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes, and as a result are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and hazardous waste products that we generate. Although we believe that our procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, including a discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our insurance and other resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. 32 Table of Contents We are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including new or revised safety or environmental standards, could give rise to significant liability and require us to incur substantial expenses and could materially harm our results of operations. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. A range of other technologies could compete with fuel cell, hydrogen, or alternative fuel technologies on which our automotive OEM business is currently focused, including electric vehicles, and methanol-based fuel cell vehicles that require fuel reformation. Our success depends upon our ability to design, develop and market new or modified fuel cell and hydrogen products and systems, as well as fuel storage, fuel delivery and electronic control products for fuel cells and internal combustion engines. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for fuel cell and alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are driven, to a significant degree, by local, state and federal regulations that relate to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants, and that require the purchase of motor vehicles and equipment operating on alternative fuels or fuel cells. Similarly, foreign governmental regulations also affect our international business. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in alternative fuel and fuel cell powered vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current domestic and foreign laws or to adopt additional environmental laws could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, and fuel cells in particular, we cannot assure you that governments will not change their priorities or that any change they make would not materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. The development of uniform codes and standards for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and related hydrogen refueling infrastructure may not develop in a timely fashion. Uniform codes and standards do not currently exist for fuel cell systems, fuel cell components or the use of hydrogen as a vehicle fuel. Establishment of appropriate codes and standards is a critical element to allow fuel cell system developers, fuel cell component developers and hydrogen storage and handling companies to develop products that will be accepted in the marketplace. All fuels, including hydrogen, pose significant safety hazards, and hydrogen vehicles have not yet been widely used under “real-world” driving conditions. Ensuring that hydrogen fuel is safe to use by the car-driving public requires that appropriate codes and standards be established that will address certain characteristics of hydrogen and the safe handling of hydrogen fuels. The development of fuel cell and hydrogen fuel applicable standards is being undertaken by numerous organizations, including the American National Standards Institute, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the European Integrated Hydrogen Project, the International Code Council, the International Standards Organization, the National Fire Protection Association, the National Hydrogen Association, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the Canadian Standards Association, the American National Standards 33 Table of Contents Institute and the International Electrotechnical Commission. Given the number of organizations pursuing hydrogen and fuel cell codes and standards, it is not clear whether universally accepted codes and standards will result and, if so, when. Although many organizations have identified as a significant priority the development of codes and standards, we cannot assure you that any resulting codes and standards would not materially affect our revenue or the commercialization of our products. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could affect its market price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock into the public market, including shares issued upon exercise of options and warrants, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. In connection with our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group, we: • issued approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock in a private placement on June 29, 2006; • issued approximately 21.0 million shares of our common stock to holders of shares of Tecstar Automotive Group’s common stock outstanding at the effective time of the merger; and • agreed to issue approximately 2.6 million shares of our common stock upon conversion of Tecstar Automotive Group’s 8.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009. We filed a registration statement on Form S-3 (or other available registration form) to permit the resale by certain former shareholders of Tecstar Automotive Group of the shares of our common stock that they received in the merger. To the extent that holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock choose to liquidate their investments in us, sales of such shares could have a negative impact upon the price of our common stock, particularly in the short-term. In addition, we issued approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock in a private placement that closed on June 29, 2006; and issued 1,815,000 shares of our common stock in connection with our acquisition of Regency Conversions, Inc. Our future operating results may fluctuate, which could result in a lower price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock may decline below currently prevailing levels. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors, including general industry conditions. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports in a timely manner or prevent financial fraud. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. As a result of our merger with Tecstar Automotive Group, our internal controls include the internal controls of both Tecstar Automotive Group and Quantum. Our internal controls will also include those of any company or business that we acquire in the future. Acquired companies or businesses are likely to have 34 Table of Contents different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports on a timely basis or prevent financial fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be negatively affected. We may be unable to remedy our material weakness on internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner. As reported in our Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the lack of internal resources necessary to apply the numerous complex accounting standards to non-routine transactions in a timely manner. As a result, McGladrey & Pullen, LLP’s opinion set forth in its Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting as of April 30, 2006 was that we have not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of April 30, 2006. Although the Company is implementing remedial controls to address this matter, if we fail to remedy the material weakness in a timely manner, it could cause us to improperly record our financial and operating results and could result in us failing to meet our financial reporting responsibilities in future reporting periods. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. Prior to July 2002, there was no trading market for our common stock. Since our common stock began trading in July 2002, its market price and trading volume have been volatile. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors described in this annual report or for reasons unrelated to our specific performance. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and may adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our common stock. Prices for our common stock may also be influenced by the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perceptions about us and our business, our future financial results, the absence of cash dividends on our common stock and general economic and market conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert our management and other resources. Past acquisitions and any future acquisitions or transactions may not be successful. The Company has consummated and may continue to consummate acquisitions in order to provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services or enhance its distribution channels. We expect to continue to make strategic acquisitions of, and investments in, other businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, geographic locations, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, or incur unforeseen expenses in consummating future acquisitions, we could incur unanticipated expenses and losses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. 35 Table of Contents Any transactions or relationships will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered with those matters. Risks that could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition include, among other things: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the distraction of management from our business; • the unexpected loss of customers of the acquired business; • the potential inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position as a result of an acquisition; 35.1 Table of Contents • the potential for costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the risk of entering market segments in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such market segments have stronger market segment positions; • the risk that there could be deficiencies in the internal control of any acquired company or investments that could result in a material weakness in our overall internal controls taken as a whole; • the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; and • the potential dilution of earnings through acquisitions and options granted to employees of acquired companies or businesses Future acquisitions could result in our incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, including environmental, tax or other liabilities. These liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to generate cash and ability to make required payments on our debt. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results and share price. Any acquisitions could materially harm our operating results as a result of issuances of dilutive equity securities or payment of cash. In addition, the purchase price of any acquired businesses may exceed the current fair values of the net tangible assets of the acquired businesses. As a result, we would be required to record material amounts of goodwill, and other intangible assets, which could result in significant impairment and amortization expense in future periods. These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. The disposition of businesses that do not fit with our evolving strategy can be highly uncertain We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. Our decision to sell Tarxien Automotive is a recent example of disposition decisions. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms which are less than we had anticipated. In addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. Correspondingly, we may be too optimistic about a particular business’s prospects, in which case we may be unable to find a buyer at a price acceptable to us and therefore may have potentially sacrificed enterprise value. Provisions of Delaware law and of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may make a takeover or change in control more difficult. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware corporate law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our management and Board of Directors oppose. Public stockholders that might desire to participate in one of these transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide for the following: • a staggered Board of Directors, which makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors in any one year; 36 Table of Contents • the exclusive right of the Board of Directors to change the number of directors and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, which could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of the Board of Directors; • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock, which could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to obtain voting control of us; • advance notice requirements for director nominations or other proposals at stockholder meetings; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which could delay a third party from pursuing an acquisition; and • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and requiring the affirmative vote of 80% of our outstanding voting stock to amend certain other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, which could make it more difficult for a third party to remove the provisions we have included to prevent or delay a change of control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or to change our management and the Board of Directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 