ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS West Bancorporation’s business is conducted through its two wholly-owned subsidiaries: West Bank and WB Capital. The most substantial risks for our stock involve West Bank, which is the most significant portion of our operations and total assets. The largest component of our 2007 income was interest received on loans. The second largest component of income was interest income on investment securities, Federal funds, and short-term investments. We believe the following are the most significant risk factors for the next year. We are also subject to other risks, both known and unknown, that may significantly affect our stock price. The reader, therefore, should consider all other information contained in this Form 10-K and in the Appendix to our Proxy Statement, which was filed on March 7, 2008. All of that information is incorporated herein by this reference. 10 West Bank Loan Portfolio At December 31, 2007, West Bank’s loan portfolio included approximately $878,433,000 of commercial real estate loans, commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, and construction or land development loans. These loans made up 89 percent of West Bank’s entire loan portfolio. These types of loans typically have greater credit risks than one- to four-family residential mortgages or consumer loans because repayment depends in significant part on the successful business operations of the borrowers. Our commercial loans also typically include larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers than do residential mortgages or consumer loans. In addition, commercial real estate, construction, and real estate development loans may be more negatively affected than residential mortgage loans by adverse developments in the real estate markets or the general economy. If the economy turns downward, commercial borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, and the value of their collateral may decrease. Commercial loans also involve some additional risk, because they generally are not fully repaid over the loan period and usually require a large payoff at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make the maturity payment typically depends on being able to either refinance the loan or make timely and profitable sales of the underlying property or business collateral. The typical West Bank borrower is a small- or medium-sized privately-owned business that usually has fewer resources and less ability to sustain losses over time than larger or publicly-owned businesses. In addition, collateral securing small business loans may be more likely to depreciate over time or be difficult to liquidate. The review and monitoring process by West Bank’s directors, officers, and staff cannot avoid all these risks. West Bank’s management makes various business assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of all of its loans. Despite its underwriting and review policies, West Bank may experience loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on its profits. If West Bank’s current allowance for loan losses is found to be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, an increase in the allowance would be necessary. West Bank may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses if one or more large loans become delinquent, or if the percentage of its commercial real estate, construction, land development, and commercial loans continues to grow. In addition, West Bank’s regulators periodically review the loan portfolio and may require increases in its provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Increases in West Bank’s allowance for loan losses would decrease West Bank’s net income. West Bank cannot be sure that its monitoring procedures and policies will successfully avoid its lending risks, or that West Bank’s present allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual future charge-offs. Unlike regional and national banks that are more geographically diversified, West Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Des Moines and Iowa City, Iowa, metropolitan areas. The local economic conditions in the market areas we serve have a significant impact on the type of loans underwritten by West Bank, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions in our limited market areas caused by factors beyond West Bank’s control could adversely affect our financial condition and profits. There has been a significant amount of recent publicity regarding sub-prime single-family mortgages and increases in foreclosure rates. West Bank has not and does not originate sub-prime single-family mortgages. In addition, West Bank does not directly invest in sub-prime mortgages in its investment portfolio and the amount, if any, of sub-prime mortgages securing mortgage-backed securities owned by West Bank is not a material amount of the investment portfolio. While the foreclosure rate in Iowa has been increasing, the Company does not expect this to have a material impact on its operations. For several years, the majority of mortgage loans originated by West Bank have been sold in the secondary market and not retained on the Company’s books. West Bank has owned a portfolio of single-family loans for several years that may from time to time result in foreclosures, but the number of foreclosures in its portfolio is not expected to be material. As of December 31, 2007, West Bank had identified approximately $20 million of loans to nine real estate developers who were still performing their loan obligations despite experiencing varying degrees of increasing financial difficulty. It is not now possible to fully predict the degree of problems these loans may develop. However, West Bank considers these loans to be potential problem loans, and it intends to continue special monitoring of all real estate development loans for the foreseeable future. Interest Rates West Bancorporation’s net income is also affected by interest rate risks. Interest rate risks are the possibilities that changes in market interest rates may adversely affect West Bank’s earnings and capital. Increases or decreases in interest rates and the relationship between long-term and short-term rates are both factors of interest rate risks. Net interest income is the largest component of the Company’s net income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned (income) and interest paid (expense). Interest is earned on loans made to customers and on investment securities in the investment portfolio. Interest is paid on customers’ deposit accounts and funds borrowed from other sources. The amounts of interest earned and interest paid are the result of interest rates and the dollar balances of loans, investments, deposits, and borrowings outstanding. 11 Interest rates on loans and investments may not change at the same time or in the same amount as interest rates on deposits and borrowings. Various factors affect the interest rates associated with loans and investments, such as the credit rating of the borrower and the term of the loan or investment. Generally, the longer the term of the loan or investment, the higher the interest rate. Interest rates on investment securities are generally fixed for the term of the investment. Interest rates on loans can be fixed for the term of the loan or can be variable and change when there is a change in an associated index, such as the prime rate. Interest rates on deposit accounts, such as savings and money market accounts, generally change over time based upon changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on certificates of deposit are usually fixed for the term of the certificate. Interest rates associated with borrowings can be either fixed or variable. Net interest income is also affected by the volume of loans, investments, deposits, and borrowings that are maturing, the dollar amounts of new loan and deposit accounts being opened, and the amounts of early loan payoffs for any given period. These events, which to varying degrees are beyond the control of West Bank, affect the amount of dollars that may be reinvested as interest rates change. The ultimate impact on net interest income over time will depend upon the direction and significance of changes in market interest rates as well as the dollar amounts of loans, investments, deposits, and borrowings subject to the changes in market interest rates. Economic Conditions The general economy is slowing. Based upon increasing numbers of foreclosures and slower sales of one-to-four family residences, it is generally agreed that the real estate market is in a slowdown. The Federal Reserve reduced the targeted fed funds rate and the discount rate by 225 basis points between September 2007 and January 2008, indicating its concern about the slowing economy. It is uncertain when this slowdown will turn around and the ripple effect it could have on other parts of the economy. The duration and magnitude of any near-term economic difficulties are not known. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff. ITEM 