ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating MarkWest Energy Partners. Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and payment of our expenses to enable us to pay distributions at the current level. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales; •the prices of, level of production of, and demand for natural gas and NGLs; •the volumes of natural gas we gather, process and transport; •the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of fees and expenses of our general partner; and •prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our debt service requirements; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; 23 •restrictions contained in our debt agreements; •the level of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures incurred in connection with our enhancement projects; •the cost of acquisitions, if any; and •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and inflationary uncertainties. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. Furthermore, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth may be limited. Our ability to grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in the cash generated from operations per unit. If we are unable to make these accretive acquisitions because we are (1) unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them, (2) unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, or (3) outbid by competitors, then our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. If we are unable to timely and successfully integrate our future acquisitions, our future financial performance may suffer, and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to integrate our future acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate any acquisitions into our existing operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability and anticipated results from such acquisitions. Failure to achieve such planned results could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. 24 The integration of acquisitions with our existing business involves numerous risks, including: •operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional midstream operations into our existing operations; •difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area; •the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; •the diversion of management's attention from other existing business concerns; •the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and •consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities including those under the same stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to releases of pollutants into the environment and environmental protection as applicable to our existing plants, pipelines and facilities. If so, our operation of these new assets could cause us to incur increased costs to address these liabilities or to attain or maintain compliance with such requirements. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our acquisition strategy is based in part on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of assets within the midstream petroleum and natural gas industry. A material decrease in such divestitures could limit our opportunities for future acquisitions, and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. Subject to the restrictions governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations, including the indentures governing our outstanding notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing debt; •impair our ability to obtain additional financings in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general partnership and other purposes; •have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, distributions and other general partnership requirements; 25 •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. Furthermore, these consequences could limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our existing credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions, which, if not maintained, may limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, make or own certain investments, enter into any swap contracts other than in the ordinary course of business, merge, consolidate, or sell assets, incur indebtedness senior to the credit facility, make distributions on equity investments, and declare or make, directly or indirectly, any distribution on our common units. Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and guaranteed by all of our subsidiaries, other than our operating company, which is the borrower under the credit facility (please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources). In particular, we may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of any of these covenants or our failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of our credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, or proceed against the collateral. A significant decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our gathering systems are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and the utilization rate at our processing plants and our treating and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. Declines in natural gas prices, if sustained, could lead to a material decrease in such production activity and ultimately to a decrease in exploration activity. Because of these factors, even if new natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells due to reductions in drilling activity or competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. 26 We depend on third parties for the natural gas and refinery off-gas we process, and the NGLs we fractionate at our facilities, and a reduction in these quantities could reduce our revenues and cash flow. Although we obtain our supply of natural gas, refinery off-gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers, a significant portion comes from a limited number of key producers/suppliers who are committed to us under processing contracts. According to these contracts or other supply arrangements, however, the producers are under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to our facilities. If these key suppliers, or a significant number of other producers, were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to our systems and facilities for any reason, we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. Because our operating costs are primarily fixed, a reduction in the volumes of natural gas or NGLs delivered to us would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow. The fees charged to third parties under our gathering, processing, transmission, transportation, fractionation and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, or the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees we charge to third parties. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either natural gas, NGLs or crude oil are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to): revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions and mechanical or physical failures of equipment affecting our facilities or facilities of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our financial results would suffer. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. We may not be able to retain existing customers, or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines, fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the markets we serve. Our competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, and greater access to natural gas and NGL supplies than we do. Additionally, our customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to us may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using our services. Certain of our competitors may also have advantages in competing for acquisitions, or other new business opportunities, because of their financial resources and synergies in operations. 27 As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect our profitability. For more information regarding our competition, please read Item 1. Business—Overview of Part 1 of this report. Our profitability is affected by the volatility of NGL product and natural gas prices. We are subject to significant risks associated with frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The New York Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX") daily settlement price of natural gas for the prompt month contract in 2005 ranged from a high of $15.38 per MMBtu to a low of $5.79 per MMBtu. In 2006, the same index ranged from a high of $10.63 per MMBtu to a low of $4.20 per MMBtu. In 2007, the same index ranged from a high of $8.64 per MMBtu to a low of $5.38 per MMBtu. A composite of the weighted monthly average NGLs price at our Appalachian facilities based on our average NGLs composition in 2005 ranged from a high of approximately $1.31 per gallon to a low of $0.79 per gallon. In 2006, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.29 per gallon to approximately $0.99 per gallon. In 2007, the same composite ranged from approximately $1.76 per gallon to approximately $0.96 per gallon. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •the level of domestic oil, natural gas and NGL production; •demand for natural gas and NGL products in localized markets; •imports of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; •seasonality; •the condition of the U.S. economy; •political conditions in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; and •government regulation, legislation and policies. Our net operating margins under various types of commodity-based contracts are directly affected by changes in NGL product prices and natural gas prices, and thus are more sensitive to volatility in commodity prices than our fee-based contracts. Additionally, our purchase and resale of gas in the ordinary course of business exposes us to significant risk of volatility in gas prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales, and the potential existence of a difference in the gas price associated with each transaction. Relative changes in NGL product and natural gas prices may adversely impact our results due to frac spread, natural gas and liquids exposure. Under the Partnership's keep-whole arrangements, its principal cost is delivering dry gas of an equivalent Btu content to replace Btus extracted from the gas stream in the form of NGLs, or consumed as fuel during processing. The spread between the NGL product sales price and the purchase price of natural gas with an equivalent Btu content is called the "frac spread." Generally, the frac spread and, consequently, the net operating margins are positive under these contracts. In the event 28 natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products, the cost of keeping the producer "whole" results in operating losses. Due to timing of gas purchases and liquid sales, direct exposure to either gas or liquids can be created because there is no longer an offsetting purchase or sale that remains exposed to market pricing. Through the Partnership's marketing and derivatives activity, direct exposure may occur naturally or the Partnership may choose direct exposure to either gas or liquids when the Partnership favors that exposure over frac spread risk. Given that the Partnership has positions, adverse movement in prices to the positions the Partnership has taken will negatively impact results. Our commodity derivative activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure to the unhedged portion. Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the downside volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. For further information about our risk management policies and procedures, please read Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Commodity Price Risk as set forth in this report. Management of the General Partner has discretion in conducting our risk management activities and may not accurately predict future price fluctuations and therefore expose us to financial risks and reduce our opportunity to benefit from price increases. We evaluate our exposure to commodity price risk from an overall portfolio basis. Management of the General Partner has discretion in determining whether and how to manage the commodity price risk associated with our physical and derivative positions. To the extent that we do not manage the commodity price risk relating to a position that is subject to commodity price risk, and commodity prices move adversely, we could suffer losses. Such losses could be substantial, and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, managing the commodity risk may actually reduce our opportunity to benefit from increases in the market or spot prices. 29 Changes in commodity prices subject us to margin calls, which may adversely affect our liquidity. Unfavorable commodity price changes may subject us to margin calls that require us to provide letter of credit collateral to our counterparties in amounts that may be material. Such funding requirements could exceed our letter of credit availability on our credit line. If we were unable to meet these margin calls with letters of credit, we would be forced to sell product to meet the margin calls, or to terminate the corresponding futures contracts. If we are forced to sell product to meet margin calls, we may have to sell product at prices that are not advantageous, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Transportation on certain of our pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to out unitholders. Some of our gas, liquids and crude oil transmission operations are subject to rate and service regulations under FERC or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas and oil in interstate commerce, and FERC's regulatory authority includes: facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. Intrastate natural gas pipeline operations and transportation on proprietary natural gas or petroleum products pipelines are generally not subject to regulation by FERC, and the Natural Gas Act, which is referred to as "NGA," specifically exempts some gathering systems. Yet such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. We cannot assure unitholders that FERC will not at some point determine that such gathering and transportation services are within its jurisdiction, and regulate such services. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters as set forth in this report. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, which may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. We are indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which our facilities are located and our results of operation and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if the indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligation. Columbia Gas is the previous or current owner of the property on which our Kenova, Boldman, Cobb and Kermit facilities are located and is the previous operator of our Boldman and Cobb facilities. Columbia Gas has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying the Boldman and Cobb facilities pursuant to an "Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions" entered into by Columbia Gas and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, in the case of the Boldman facility, an "Agreed Order" with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. 30 Columbia Gas has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased from Columbia Gas. At the closing of our initial public offering, MarkWest Hydrocarbon assigned us the benefit of its indemnity from Columbia Gas with respect to the Cobb, Boldman and Kermit facilities. While we are not a party to the agreement under which Columbia Gas agreed to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon with respect to the Kenova facility, MarkWest Hydrocarbon has agreed to provide to us the benefit of its indemnity, as well as any other third party environmental indemnity of which it is a beneficiary. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if in the future either Columbia Gas or MarkWest Hydrocarbon fails to perform under the indemnification provisions of which we are the beneficiary. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters, and the violation of, or the cost of compliance with, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive and stringent federal, local and state laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, safety and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. Joint and several strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault, or the legality of the original conduct, under certain of the environmental laws for remediation of contaminated areas, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, and analogous state laws. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our storage, fractionation and processing facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. New, more stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies might adversely influence our products and activities. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations. These could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property, natural resources and persons. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety-related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters, Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters, and Item 1. Business—Pipeline Safety Regulations, each as set forth in this report. 31 The amount of gas we process, gather and transmit, or the crude oil we gather and transport, may be reduced if the pipelines to which we deliver the natural gas or crude oil cannot, or will not, accept the gas or crude oil. All of the natural gas we process, gather and transmit is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users. If these pipelines cannot, or will not, accept delivery of the gas due to downstream constraints on the pipeline, we will be forced to limit or stop the flow of gas through our pipelines and processing systems. In addition, interruption of pipeline service upstream of our processing facilities would limit or stop flow through our processing facilities. Likewise, if the pipelines into which we deliver crude oil are interrupted, we will be limited in, or prevented from conducting, our crude oil transportation operations. Any number of factors beyond our control could cause such interruptions or constraints on pipeline service, including necessary and scheduled maintenance, or unexpected damage to the pipeline. Because our revenues and net operating margins depend upon (1) the volumes of natural gas we process, gather and transmit, (2) the throughput of NGLs through our transportation, fractionation and storage facilities and (3) the volume of crude oil we gather and transport, any reduction of volumes could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Interruptions in operations at any of our facilities may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations depend upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, and various means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or our inability to transmit natural gas or NGLs, or transport crude oil to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, would adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Operations at our facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within our control, such as: •unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events at our physical plants; •labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; and •a disruption in the supply of crude oil to our crude oil pipeline, natural gas to our processing plants or gathering pipelines, or a disruption in the supply of NGLs to our transportation pipeline and fractionation facility. Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses could reduce our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses. An adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets. We may not be able to successfully execute our business plan and may not be able to grow our business, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to successfully operate our business, generate sufficient cash to pay the quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders, and to allow for growth, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Similarly, we may not be able to successfully expand our business through acquiring or growing our assets, because of various factors, including economic and competitive factors beyond our 32 control. If we are unable to grow our business, or execute on our business plan, the market price of the common units is likely to decline. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our industry is subject to numerous operating hazards and risks incidental to processing, transporting, fractionating and storing natural gas and NGLs and to transporting and storing crude oil. These include: •damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods, hurricanes, and other natural disasters; •inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; •leakage of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; •fires and explosions; and •other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Market conditions could cause certain insurance premiums and deductibles to become unavailable, or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers now require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. As a result of damage caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast regions in 2005, insurance costs related to oil and gas assets in these regions have increased significantly. We may be unable to obtain insurance on our interest in Starfish at rates we consider reasonable. We own a 50% non-operating membership interest in Starfish, whose assets are located in the Gulf of Mexico and southwestern Louisiana. During 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused severe and widespread damage to oil and gas assets in the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast regions. The loss to both offshore and onshore assets resulting from the hurricanes has led to substantial insurance claims within the oil and gas industry. Insurance costs have increased within this region as a result of these developments. We have renewed our insurance coverage relating to Starfish and mitigated a portion of the cost increase by reducing our coverage and broadening the self-insurance element of our overall coverage. In the future, we may be unable to obtain adequate insurance on our interest in Starfish at rates we consider reasonable and as a result may experience losses that are not insured or that exceed the maximum limits under our insurance policies. If a significant negative event that is not fully insured occurs with respect to Starfish, it could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled staff. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees, including accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these employees could harm our business. 33 Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies depends in part on its ability to retain key management and existing employees at the time of the acquisition. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of the previous generation's experienced workers reaching the age for retirement, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments will subject our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack that may target our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. The General Partner, without your approval, may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with or senior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •the unitholders' proportionate ownership interest will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; •the market price of the common units may decline; and •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. Unitholders have less ability to influence management's decisions than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have more limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore a more limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner, but will now have the right to elect our General Partner's board of directors. The amended and restated partnership agreement provides that the General Partner may not withdraw and may not be removed at any time for any reason whatsoever. Furthermore, if any person or group other than the General Partner and its 34 affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of any class of units (without the prior approval of the General Partner board), that person or group loses voting rights on all of its units. However, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have the right to annually elect its board of directors. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, unitholders could be held liable for our obligations as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by unitholders as a group to approve certain transactions or amendments to the agreement of limited partnership, or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement was considered participation in the "control" of our business. After the redemption and merger, unitholders will elect the members of the General Partner board, which may be deemed to be participation in the "control" of our business. This could subject unitholders to liability as a general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. For example, the state of Texas and the state of Michigan have both instituted income-based taxes that result in an entity level tax for the partnership. Beginning in 2008, the Partnership will be required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 1.0% of our gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Additionally, the Michigan Business Tax, which contains two prongs, also imposes a tax on the partnership. The two prongs comprise a tax at the rate of 0.8% of a taxpayer's modified gross receipts and a tax at the rate of 4.95% of the taxpayer's business income. Each of the above mentioned rates also includes a surcharge of 21.99% resulting in overall rates of 0.97% and 6.03%. The imposition of entity level taxes on us by Texas and Michigan and, if applicable, by any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The amended and restated partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Tax Risks to Existing Unitholders An existing unitholder may be required to recognize gain as a result of the decrease in his distributive share of our nonrecourse liabilities as a result of the Merger. As result of the merger, the allocable shares of nonrecourse liabilities allocated to existing unitholders will be recalculated to take into account common units issued by us in exchange for Company common stock. If an existing unitholder experiences a reduction in our unitholder's share of nonrecourse liabilities as a result of the merger, a "reducing debt shift," our unitholder will be deemed to have received a cash distribution equal to the amount of the reduction. A reduction in our unitholder's share of liabilities will result in a corresponding basis reduction in our unitholder's common units. A reducing debt shift and the resulting deemed cash distribution may, under certain 35 circumstances, result in the recognition of taxable gain by our unitholder. If the reduction in our unitholder's share of nonrecourse liabilities and the resulting deemed cash distribution exceeds such unitholder's common unit basis, such unitholder would recognize gain in an amount equal to such excess. We do not expect that any constructive cash distribution will exceed an existing unitholder's tax basis in our common units. Tax Risks Related to Owning our Common Units Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders could be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash flows would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. For example, at the federal level, legislation has been proposed that would eliminate partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be reduced to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and the General Partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 36 A unitholder may be required to pay taxes on his share of our income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, each unitholder will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on his share of our taxable income even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to his share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If a unitholder sells his common units, he will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in his common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such common units at a price greater than his tax basis in those common units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than his original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if the unitholder sells his units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If a unitholder is a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, the unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder's sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns. 37 We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of the common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of the units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional common units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and the General Partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from the sale of common units by our unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. 38 The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period would result in our termination for federal income tax purposes. We would be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there were a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and the unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we would make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where the unitholders do not live as a result of investing in common units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business or own property in nine states, most of which impose personal income taxes. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholder's responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 