ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS West Bancorporation's business is conducted through its two wholly owned subsidiaries: West Bank and WB Capital. In 2006, West Bank generated over 102% of West Bancorporation's net income. The most substantial risks for the Company's stock, therefore, involve West Bank. The largest component of West Bank's 2006 income was interest received on loans. The next largest component was interest paid to West Bank on investment securities, Federal funds, and short-term investments. The Company believes the following are the most significant risk factors for the next year. West Bancorporation is also subject to other risks, both known and unknown. The reader, therefore, should consider all other information contained in this Form 10-K and in the Appendix to our Proxy Statement, which was filed on March 9, 2007. All of that information is incorporated herein by this reference. West Bank Loan Portfolio At December 31, 2006, West Bank's loan portfolio included $800,427,000 of commercial real estate loans, commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, and construction or land development loans. These loans made up 88 percent of the bank's entire loan portfolio. These types of loans typically have greater credit risks than one- to four-family residential mortgages or consumer loans because repayment depends in significant part on the successful business operations of the borrowers. Our commercial loans also typically include larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers than do residential mortgages or consumer loans. In addition, commercial real estate, construction, and real estate development loans may be more negatively affected than residential mortgage loans by adverse developments in the real estate markets or the general economy. If the economy turns downward, commercial borrowers may not be able to repay their loans and the value of their collateral may decrease. Commercial loans also involve some additional risk because they generally are not fully repaid over the loan period and usually require a large payoff at maturity. A borrower's ability to make the maturity payment typically depends on being able to either refinance the loan or make timely and profitable sales of the underlying property or business collateral. The typical West Bank borrower is a small or medium sized privately-owned business that usually has fewer resources and less ability to sustain losses over time than larger or publicly-owned businesses. In addition, collateral securing small business loans may be more likely to depreciate over time or be difficult to liquidate. The review and monitoring process by West Bank's directors, officers and staff cannot avoid all these risks. West Bank's management makes various business assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of all of its loans. Despite its underwriting and review policies, West Bank may experience loan losses that could have a material adverse effect on its profits. If West Bank's current allowance for loan losses is found to be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, an increase in the allowance would be necessary. West Bank may need to significantly increase the provision for loan losses if one or more large loans become delinquent, or if the percentage of its commercial real estate, construction, land development, and commercial loans continues to grow. In addition, West Bank's regulators periodically review the loan portfolio and may require increases in its provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Increases in the bank's allowance for loan losses would decrease West Bank's net income. West Bank's management cannot be sure that its monitoring procedures and policies will successfully avoid certain lending risks, or that West Bank's present allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual future charge-offs. 11 Unlike regional and national banks that are more geographically diversified, West Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the Des Moines and Iowa City, Iowa, metropolitan areas. The local economic conditions in the market areas we serve have a significant impact on the type of loans underwritten by West Bank, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions in our limited market areas caused by factors beyond West Bank's control could affect the local economic conditions and adversely affect West Bancorporation's financial condition and profits. Interest rates West Bancorporation's net income is also affected by interest rate risks. Interest rate risks are the possibilities that changes in market interest rates may adversely affect West Bank's earnings and capital. Increases or decreases in interest rates and the relationship between long-term and short-term rates are both factors of interest rate risks. Net interest income is the largest component of the Company's net income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned (income) and interest paid (expense). Interest is earned on loans made to customers and on investment securities in the investment portfolio. Interest is paid on customers' deposit accounts and funds borrowed from other sources. The amounts of interest earned and interest paid are the result of interest rates and the dollar balances of loans, investments, deposits and borrowings outstanding. Interest rates on loans and investments may not change at the same time and in the same magnitude as interest rates on deposits and borrowings. Various factors affect the interest rates associated with loans and investments, such as the credit rating of the borrower and the term of the loan or investment. Generally the longer the term of the loan or investment, the higher the interest rate. Interest rates on investment securities are generally fixed for the term of the investment. Interest rates on loans can be fixed for the term of the loan or variable and change when there is a change in an associated index, such as the prime rate. Interest rates on deposit accounts such as savings and money market accounts generally change over time based upon changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on certificates of deposit are usually fixed for the term of the certificate. Interest rates associated with borrowings can be either fixed or variable. Net interest income is also affected by the volume of loans, investments, deposits and borrowings that are maturing, the dollar amounts of new loan and deposit accounts being opened, and the amounts of early loan payoffs for any given period. These events affect the amount of dollars that may be reinvested as interest rates change. Interest rates associated with loans, investments, deposits and borrowings seldom move at the same time or in the same magnitude. The ultimate impact on net interest income over time will depend upon the direction and significance of changes in market interest rates as well as the dollar amounts of loans, investments, deposits and borrowings subject to the changes in market interest rates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The registrant has no information to be disclosed under this item. 