risk factors specified above. Notwithstanding the above, Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act expressly state that the safe harbor for forward-looking statements does not apply to companies that issue penny stock. Because we may from time to time be considered as an issuer of penny stock, the safe harbor for forward-looking statements may not apply to us at certain times. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including statements regarding new and existing products, technologies and opportunities; statements regarding market and industry segment growth and demand and acceptance of new and existing products; any projections of sales, earnings, revenue, margins or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; uncertainties related to conducting business in China; any statements of belief or intention; any of the factors mentioned in the "Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K; and any statements or assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. We assume no obligation and do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 4 PART I Item 1. Description of Business Our Business China Agritech is a holding company whose direct and indirect subsidiaries manufacture and sell organic liquid compound fertilizers and related agricultural products. Our business operations are primarily conducted through our China-based subsidiaries, Anhui Agritech, Beijing Agritech and Pacific Dragon. Our revenues are derived primarily from the sale of our organic fertilizer products to our customers. We are a leading manufacturer of fertilizer products in China, specifically, organic fertilizer products in liquid form. We have been producing organic liquid compound fertilizer product in China since 1994. China is the principal market for our fertilizer products, which are primarily sold to farmers in 20 provinces in China: Hainan, Anhui, Hubei, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Guangxi, Liaoning, Shanxi Heilongjiang, Hebei, Jilin, Shandong, Inner Mongolia, Henan, Sichuan, Guangdong, Xinjiang, Yunnan, Chongqing and Guizhou. Our annual fertilizer production capacity in 2006 was approximately 9,000 metric tons and our 2007 capacity was approximately 13,000 metric tons. Our sales revenue increased from $25.3 million in 2005 to $29.5 million in 2006 and our net income increased from $3.7 million in 2005 to $5.3 million in 2006. Our sales revenue increased 33% from $29.5 million in fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 to $39.2 million in fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and our net income grew 62.3% from $5.3 million in fiscal year 2006 to $8.6 million in fiscal year 2007. Our main products include “LvLingBao III,” “LvLingBao IV,” “Tailong I,” and “Green Vitality” and other customized, crop specific fertilizers that are tailored to our customers' specific requirements. Our products promote photosynthesis, root system growth and transmission of nutrients to seeds; equilibrate absorption of nutrients and speed a plant's maturity; eliminate the damage of harmful radicals to plants and increase protein and vitamin content levels; accelerate the accumulation of photosynthesis materials and cell concentration; increase reservation ability to resist the drought, resistance and the utilization rate of basic fertility; and foster the development of plant life along with neutral or acidic pesticides. Our products can be applied on a widespread basis via spraying by machine or aircraft. Our products have been recognized for their quality and effectiveness by leading industry associations and have been certified by the PRC government at the national level, which is an endorsement of the effectiveness of the products in all regions of China. We believe that our brand reputation and ability to tailor our products to meet the requirements of various regions of China affords us a competitive advantage. We purchase the majority of our raw materials from suppliers located in China and use suppliers that are located in close proximity to our manufacturing facilities. We have made progress in expanding our operations through our recently formed Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech operating subsidiaries. Anhui Agritech operates our constructed facility in the Anhui province that began operations in July, 2006. Anhui Agritech manufactures and sells our fertilizer products to customers in the Anhui, Hubei, and Henan provinces of China. Beijing Agritech supervises our Beijing operations, which serve as a research and development center and our primary syrup production center and converting factory. Our Beijing Agritech operations commenced business in September 2006. Our annual production capacity in 2007 was approximately 13,000 metric tons of organic liquid compound fertilizers. Our Industry In China, the total output of fertilizer in 2005 reached 48.3 million metric tons, which was the one third of the world’s output. China is the principal market for our organic liquid compound fertilizers and related agricultural products. It is anticipated that the total demand of fertilizer will exceed to 50 million metric ton by the year 2015. As a subset of the broader fertilizer market, the use of compound fertilizers in China has likewise increased, from 1,796,000 tons in 1985 to 13,032,000 in 2005, an increase rate of 5.8% from 2001 to 2002, 6.7% from 2002 to 2003, and 8% increase in 2004 and 2005 (Source: 2006 China statistics Yearbook). It is expected that the total demand of organic fertilizer will reach to about 25 million metric ton by the year 2015. 5 The large size and high growth rate of the Chinese fertilizer market, particularly the environmentally friendly organic fertilizer market, can be attributed to several factors, including China’s large population, significant farming and agricultural activities, government incentives and environmental concerns. Future growth in the fertilizer market is expected to be due largely to the projected growth in the use of fertilizer products and a continuation of the high level of farming and agricultural activities. Our Challenges Our ability to successfully operate our business and achieve our goals and strategies is subject to numerous challenges and risks as discussed more fully in the section titled “Risk Factors,” including for example: · any failure to expand our operations and production capacity sufficiently to meet our customers’ demands; · any inability to effectively manage rapid growth and accurately project market demand for our products; · risks associated with future investments or acquisitions; any loss of key members of our senior management; · loss of any skilled personnel or any failure to continue to attract skilled personnel in the future; · any failure to protect the proprietary formula and manufacturing processes for out concentrated organic liquid compound fertilizer; · potential product liability claims arising from fertilizer products; · failure to renew our fertilizer registration certificate; · unexpected changes to China’s political or economic situation or legal environment; · failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by our PRC resident stockholders; and · determination of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency that CSRC approval is required regarding any previous or future financing transaction we may enter into. You should read and consider the information set forth in “Risk Factors” and all other information set forth in this report before investing in our common stock. Corporate Information Our corporate name is China Agritech, Inc. We were originally incorporated on January 5, 1925 under the laws of the State of Nevada as Argyle Mining Company for the development of mining claims. Since then, we have changed our business model several times. We had no active operations during the period from 1986 until February 2005, when we completed a reverse acquisition transaction with, China Tailong Holdings Company Limited, a Hong Kong Corporation, which is the holding company for Pacific Dragon, one of our operating companies. In addition to Pacific Dragon, we conduct business operations through two other PRC based operating companies: Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech. See “Our Corporate Structure and History.” 6 The following chart reflects our organizational structure as of the date of this report. The address of our principal executive office is Room 301 No. 11 Building. Zhonghong International Business Garden, Future Business Center, Chaoyang North Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing China 100024. Our telephone number is (86)10-59621278. We maintain a website at http://www.chinaagritechinc.com that contains information about us, but that information is not part of this report. Recent Developments On July 3, 2007, we completed a private placement transaction whereby we sold 5,556,000 shares of our common stock to 20 investors for approximately $15 million, as described in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on July 6, 2007. The shares were offered and sold to investors in reliance upon exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(2) and Rule 506 thereunder. On October 8, 2007, we entered into a contractual arrangement with SINOCHEM (the “Buyer”), pursuant to which we will supply Green Vitality fertilizers to the Buyer through October 7, 2008, as described in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on October 8, 2007, as amended. The total revenue expected from the contract is equivalent to approximately U.S. $7.8 million. We opened additional converting facilities in Chongqing and Xinjiang on March and July 2007, respectively, the latter one as described in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on August 3, 2007. We have a total capacity of 13,000 metric tons for the year ended December 31, 2007, a 160% increase in capacity from the end of 2006. 7 Industry Background and Our Principal Markets In China, the total output of fertilizer in 2005 reached 48.3 million metric tons, which was the one third of the world’s output. China is the principal market for our organic liquid compound fertilizers and related agricultural products. Our products are primarily sold to farmers in 20 provinces in China: Hainan, Anhui, Hubei, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Guangxi, Liaoning, Shanxi Heilongjiang, Hebei, Jilin, Shandong, Inner Mongolia, Henan, Sichuan, Guangdong, Xinjiang, Yunnan, Chongqing and Guizhou. China has the world's largest population of nearly 1.3 billion people. However, China's arable land on a per capita basis is only 0.04 hectare (Source: 2006 China statistics Yearbook), or approximately 50% of that present in the United States (Source: US Census Bureau, www.census.gov). This combination of limited arable land and a large and growing population has created a significant need to increase the output of crops per hectare in China. China's agricultural output increased 19% from 1989 to 2005 (the total crops output was 407,549,000 tons in 1989 as compared to 484,022,000 tons in 2005) (Source: 2006 China statistics Yearbook). An increase in the use of fertilizers - 8,840,000 tons were used in 1978 compared to 47,662,000 tons used in 2005, one third of the world’s output, has contributed to this growth (Source: 2006 China statistics Yearbook). It is anticipated that the total demand of fertilizer will exceed to 50 million metric ton by the year 2015. As a subset of the broader fertilizer market, the use of compound fertilizers in China has likewise increased, from 1,796,000 tons in 1985 to 13,032,000 in 2005, an increase rate of 5.8% from 2001 to 2002, 6.7% from 2002 to 2003, and 8% increase in 2004 and 2005 (Source: 2006 China statistics Yearbook). It is expected that the total demand of organic fertilizer will reach to about 25 million metric ton by the year 2015. We believe that China’s fertilizer industry is mainly influenced by the following factors: · Growth and evolution of China’s fertilizer industry. The fertilizer industry in China is in the process of rapid and continuous development. China is the largest producer and consumer of fertilizers in the world. The total consumption of fertilizers is expected to increase to 51 million tons by 2010 and 56 millions by 2020. We believe this will favorably influence the demand for our products and contribute to growth in sales of our fertilizer products and our revenues. · PRC regulators are encouraging use of organic compound fertilizers. In order to improve the efficient utilization of fertilizer, the PRC Ministry of Agriculture encourages the use of organic compound fertilizers instead of single nutrients, such as urea, or chemical fertilizers. The percentage of compound fertilizer consumption to the total fertilizer consumption rose from 10% in 1985 to 27% in 2005. (Source: 2006 China Statistics Yearbook). However, the usage of compound fertilizers in China is low compared with the average usage level of about 70% worldwide. We believe that this factor will promote usage of our products. · Availability of land suitable for agricultural purposes. Decreases of available farmland in China, projected population growth, and the movement toward environmentally conscientious farming around the world are contributing to an increase in the use of more effective and environmentally friendly organic compound fertilizers. Our products are designed to satisfy this demand. · Seasonality. Like other fertilizer manufacturers, we experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products. Fertilizer manufacturers are focusing their sales efforts in the southern and western areas of China which have warmer climates and longer harvesting seasons in order to realize more evenly distributed demand for the our products throughout the year. 8 Our Competitive Strengths We believe that the following competitive strengths enable us to compete effectively in the fertilizer market in China: · Strong Market Position. We are a leading manufacturer of fertilizer products in China, specifically, organic fertilizer products in liquid form. · Recognized and Certified Product Offerings. Our Tailong brand of fertilizer products were favorably recognized by the China Association for Quality Supervision and the China Quality Standard Research Center in 2006 for product quality, brand reputation and customer loyalty. Our fertilizer products also have been certified by the PRC government at the national level which is an endorsement of the effectiveness of the products in all regions of China, making us one of only about 10% of the fertilizer companies in China which have been fully certified. · Established Distribution Network. We sell the majority of our fertilizer products through an extensive distribution network of regional factories, which help us to establish a local presence in each community we serve with multi-level sales support and to educate local retailers and farmers on the benefits of our fertilizer products. · Efficient Infrastructure. We have created a flexible and responsive infrastructure, which allows us to efficiently manufacture and deliver high-quality fertilizer products within a short delivery time. · Broad Customer Base. We developed a diversified customer base of farmers and retailers located throughout China and are not dependent on, or heavily concentrated in, any single customer or customer base. Our Strategy We believe that our strong competitive position, our ability to meet customer demands and our well regarded product offerings will enable us to benefit from the anticipated growth in China’s fertilizer market. We are committed to enhancing our sales, profitability and cash flows through the following strategies: · Capitalize on our brand reputation to increase sales of new and existing products. We intend to leverage the favorable reputation of our fertilizer products through collaboration with academic and governmental institutions which can attest to the quality of our current product offerings. We plan to develop new compounds to better meet the changing needs of China’s agricultural communities by tailoring our product offerings to meet the local needs of the farmers and to create greater reliability of fertilizer products nationwide. We presently intend to use a portion of the proceeds from our recent financing to add organic granular compound fertilizer to its product lines and construct a granular fertilizer line near each of its existing factories, located in Harbin, Beijing, and Xinjiang. · Expand Our Domestic Operations. We intend to build or acquire additional organic granular fertilizer factories in strategic locations in China to serve other agricultural areas in China, particularly the central and Southern regions of China. Our anticipated expansion plans will increase our organic granular compound fertilizer production capacity to 200,000 metric tons. · Enhance Brand Awareness. A core future focus will be to build and enhance brand awareness of our “Lvlingbao” and “Tailong” products as well as our “Green Vitality” product line and organic granular compound fertilizer by launching an extensive advertising campaign to educate retailers and farmers on the benefits of our liquid organic compound products. We expect these efforts will allow us to expand our distribution and sales outside of our traditional base in Northeast China and capture a larger market share. 9 · Increase Sales into Select Foreign Markets. We plan to leverage our product offerings and brand reputation to expand our product sales into select international markets. We currently performing a feasibility study and market research on few selected oversea markets which we expect will result in revenue growth in the future and we intend to pursue sales to other strategic foreign regions. Our Products Our fertilizer products consist primarily of organic liquid compound fertilizers which are derived from natural sources. We believe that our fertilizer products are capable of increase crop yield by as much as 30%. We produce our fertilizer production using proprietary formulas of humic acid and other amino acids which have proven to have a significant effect on crop yield and quality without the harmful side effects of chemical fertilizers. Our products contain over 30 active ingredients comprised of organic elements, inorganic elements that are region specific and other active and stimulative agents. Our products, which are designed to be multi-functional, improve the photosynthesis function in crops and the root absorption system, enhance the resistance of crops to harsh environmental conditions and increase plant size and quality. Our fertilizer formulas are highly concentrated, blendable with pesticides or water for easy application and facilitate better absorption rates due to low sedimentation. Our products are suitable for a variety of application methods, ranging from seed soaking, root dipping and irrigation to application by machine and aircraft. Our four main product lines and their primary uses are as follows: · Lvlingbao III. Our Lvlingbao III fertilizer product line blends humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, microelements, amino acid, active and stimulative agents and is specially formulated for fruits and vegetables. · Lvlingbao IV. Our Lvlingbao IV fertilizer line is produced using humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, microelements and is formulated for large scale crops of fruits, vegetables and grains and suitable for jet spray application. · Tailong I. Tailong I is our highly customized fertilizer line used for a wide variety of crops and plants that can be tailored to local soil conditions. Tailong I has been derived from LvLingBao III, with adjustments in the amount of amino acid, active agent and stimulative agent, in order to better nutrient absorption. · Green Vitality. Our new Green Vitality fertilizer product line is a new, premium line that will be marketed in the central and southern regions of China and can be applied to enhance yield in a large variety of crops. We are committed to producing “green” agricultural products which are designed to be environmentally friendly and intend to expand our product offerings to add organic granular compound fertilizer products. 10 Raw Materials and Our Principal Suppliers The main raw materials of our products are humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, kalium and other supplementary material, which are abundant in China. Humic acid is mainly mined from a soft, brownish-black coal called lignite and China has large lignite reserves according to the survey of energy resources published by the World Energy Council. There are numerous suppliers and vendors in China of the raw materials needed for our products. Our Company has entered into written contracts with our main suppliers: Inner-Mongolia Humic Acid Factory, Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Development Company and Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company. In fiscal year 2007, we purchased approximately 10.35% of our humic acid from Inner-Mongolia Humic Acid Factory, approximately 19.12% of our nitrogen, phosphorus and kalium from Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Technology Development Co., and approximately 20.85% of our other supplementary material from Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company. On December 16, 2005, our subsidiary Pacific Dragon has entered into a supplier contract with Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company, with the approximate value of US$2,549,351 (RMB 19,630,000) valid through 2008. Pre-payment 30% of the total contract value was paid on December 26, 2005, and 70% of total contract value was paid on February 6, 2006 upon final delivery. On March 1, 2005, our subsidiary Pacific Dragon has entered into a supplier contract with Inner-Mongolia Wu Chuan Humic Acid Factory, with the approximate value of US$747,532 (RMB 5,756,000) through March 1, 2008. On January 15, 2007, our subsidiary Pacific Dragon has entered into a supplier contract with Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Technology Development Co, with the approximate value of US$2,363,636 (RMB 18,200,000) valid from February 1, 2007 to January 31, 2009. A pre-payment of $2 million was paid, and the balance will be paid upon final delivery. Our Distributors and Customers We sell most of our products through various regional distributors in China. We have established and maintained long term relationships with major distributors who we believe have local business experience and established regional sales networks. For the year ended December 31, 2007, distribution through our ten largest distributors accounted for approximately 33.76% of our total annual sales. Our three largest distributors are: · Harbin Long Feng Trading Co., Ltd, which is located in Harbin Province and purchased approximately 7.56% of our organic liquid compound fertilizers in 2007. · Huai An Nong Ye Zhi Bao Zhan, which is located in Huai An province and purchased approximately 4.11% of our organic liquid compound fertilizers in 2007. · Heilongjiang JiuSan Agricultural Department, which is located in Heilongjiang province and purchased approximately 3.12% of our organic liquid compound fertilizers in 2007. On October 8, 2007, we entered into a contractual arrangement with SINOCHEM, pursuant to which we will supply organic Green Vitality fertilizers to SINOCHEM through October 7, 2008, with total revenue expected of approximately U.S. $7.8 million. We hold an annual ordering conference for our major distributors to place purchasing orders through written sales agreements. In addition, our sales department holds ordering conferences with our distributors in various provinces, including Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Xinjiang and Sichuan from time to time to promote our products and maintain and strengthen these relationships. In addition, we also sell our products to end users directly. All purchasing orders on our products are served on a first come, first serve basis. 11 We provide our customers with a variety of customer services, including a technical support hotline service, conducting seminars and the provision of instructional DVDs. We have also been marketing and promoting our products through broadcasting on Chinese local TV channels, such as Heilongjiang Satellite Channel and participating in activities organized by local governments to promote information about, and use of, fertilizers. Competition Our experience is that the compound fertilizer industry in China is highly fragmented, consisting of numerous smaller regional manufacturers and larger, domestic and international competitors. Our major competitors in China include Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co., Ltd (www.psb.com.cn), Henan Luo Xiaowang Group (www.luoxiaowang.com), and Shangdong Tianda 2116 (www.2116.cn). Our major global competitors include Phosyn from the UK (www.cuikang.com/news/), Shi Ma (Chinese translation) a portion of BASF of Germany, Kemira GrowHow Oyj from Finland, and Leffingwell from the USA. Management expects that a fairly recent development has the potential change the competitive landscape in the Chinese fertilizer market in the near future. Due to the Chinese government’s WTO commitment, China started to allow foreign companies to gain the right to distribute and make retail sales of fertilizers beginning on December 11, 2006. Because fertilizer products usually need to be specifically formulated for local plant, soil and climate conditions, we believe that there are not many foreign competitors in our selected markets that are capable of producing customized fertilizers that compete with our products. Nevertheless, as a result of the opening of the fertilizer market to foreign producers, we expect that the amount of fertilizer imported to China will rise significantly and that we will face increasing competition from non-Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. Judging by China Agritech’s 2007 financial performance, management remains optimistic that our company can remain competitive in its markets notwithstanding the entry of non-Chinese fertilizer manufacturers into the marketplace, although we can make no assurances of this belief in light of the anticipated increase in competition. Intellectual Property We have registered with the Trademark Office of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce of China the trademark for the "Tailong" logo (registration number: 836192), which is used on our products that are distributed in China. The trademark expires in 2016. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology and formulas. We currently do not own any patents and have not applied for patents on our proprietary technology and formulas because we do not want to make available to the public a detailed description of our technology and formulas as would be required in connection with a patent application. We believe that disclosure of our technology and formulas would be detrimental to our future business. If information about our formulas and processes is not tightly controlled, we believe that more competitors would likely emerge in this market. Only certain of our key executives have knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, has granted us a permanent license to use his know-how in manufacturing certain types of organic liquid compound fertilizer on a royalty-free basis and has granted us a long-term royalty and free license to use his know-how in manufacturing other organic liquid compound fertilizers. Mr. Chang is under contractual obligations to keep the confidentiality of this technology and refrain from licensing this technology to any third party or using the technology for his own benefit. 12 Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 329 full-time employees, of which 85 were administrative and managerial staff, 131 were sales staff and 113 were manufacturing workers. We also hire temporary manufacturing workers to supplement our manufacture capabilities at periods of high demand. None of our employees is under collective bargaining agreements and they all reside in China. We believe that we maintain a satisfactory working relationship with our employees and we have not experienced any significant labor disputes or any difficulty in recruiting staff for our operations. Research and Development We conduct on-going research and development activities relating to the improvement of the organic liquid compound fertilizers we manufacture and the control of related manufacturing costs. Our primary research and development facilities are located in Beijing and our principal research team consists of Mr. Shuhua Liu and Mr. Kangde Liu. We spent approximately $1,480 (RMB11,240) and $21,900 (RMB 108,000) on research and development in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Government Regulation All fertilizers produced in China must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. No fertilizers can be manufactured without such registration. There are two kinds of registrations: interim registration and formal registration. The interim registration is valid for one year and applies to fertilizers in the stages of in-the-field testing and test selling. All fertilizers that have completed in-the-field testing and test selling must obtain formal registration which, once obtained, is valid for five years and thereafter may be renewed for five year periods. We have obtained the necessary Formal Fertilizer Registration Certificate for all of our fertilizer products from the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. Such certificate was issued on September 3, 2002 and expired in December, 2007, at which time we were required to renew the formal registration. We had begun the process of renewing our certificate prior to December, 2007 and its expected to be renewed by April, 2008. Additionally, fertilizer manufacturers in the PRC must have a manufacturing license to make some types of fertilizer. We have a current and active license permitting us to manufacture those types of fertilizer. Other than as mentioned in the first paragraph in this section, as of December 31, 2007, we believe that we are in material compliance with all registrations and requirements for the issuance and maintenance of all licenses required by the governing bodies. Other than as mentioned in the first paragraph in this section, as of December 31, 2007, all license fees and filings are current. If we were to lose any of these licenses, we would only have a limited time to re-apply for such licenses and would face possible regulatory fines. However, such licenses will generally only be revoked under rare circumstances, such as when illegal activities have occurred. We are not subject to any environmental controls or restrictions that require the outlay of capital or the obtaining of a permit in order to engage in business operations. · Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business If we fail to effectively expand our operations and capacity to satisfy demand for our fertilizer products, our results of operations and business prospects could be impaired. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our business to address the growth in demand for our fertilizer products. Because our industry is highly competitive, if we are unable to increase our production capabilities to meet increased demand for our products, we may lose existing customers, as well as potential additional customers, to competitors with greater production capacities. If we are unable to satisfy existing customers’ increased demands for products, such customers may terminate their relationships with us which could reduce our revenues and significantly hurt our overall financial performance. In addition, we currently rely on 10 major distributors, each of whom distribute our products to multiple end user customers. If we are unable to meet the demand of end user customers of any of these distributors, such distributors may terminate their relationships with us with respect to all of their end user customers in favor or one or more of our competitors who could meet the demands of all of such customers. Failure to continue to attract new customers may impair our revenue growth. If our production capacity and revenues do not continue to grow, our competitive position, margins and profits could materially decline. We recently completed construction of our Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech manufacturing lines as well as the factories in Chongqing and Xinjiang which became operational in July, 2006 and September, 2006, March, 2007, and July, 2007 respectively, resulting in overall annual fertilizer production capacity of approximately 13,000 metric tons. Our ability to add production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the availability of additional funding to build manufacturing facilities and purchase raw materials on favorable terms or at all; · our management and minimization of delays and cost overruns caused by problems with our suppliers of raw materials and third-party vendors; and · our receipt of any necessary government approvals or permits that may be required to expand our operations in a timely manner or at all. If we cannot successfully implement additional production capacity increases efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy any increased demand for our products, which could significantly impair our financial performance. See also “We face risks associated with recent and future investments or acquisitions” below. Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. To accommodate the recent and anticipated growth of our production assets, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, then we could fail to utilize our production assets sufficiently to meet demand for our products and our operating costs could increase disproportionately, either of which could impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. 14 If we fail to accurately project market demand for our products, our business expansion plan could be jeopardized and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We plan to increase our annual manufacturing capacity of our fertilizer products to meet an expected increase in demand for our products. Our annual production capacity of our organic fertilizer products is approximately 13,000 metric tons for the 2007 fiscal year. Our decision to increase our production capacity was based primarily on our projected increases in our sales volume and growth in the size of the fertilizer market in China. If actual customer orders are less than our projected market demand, we will likely suffer overcapacity problems, may have to leave capacity idle and may accumulate substantial inventories of our fertilizer products, which may reduce our overall profitability and hurt our financial condition and results of operations due to the loss of cash flow from the increasing inventory and may cause us to sell our products at a lower price than we might otherwise agree upon with a customer. Our business will be harmed if our major distributors reduce their orders or discontinue doing business with us. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold approximately 33.76% of our fertilizer products through ten major distributors, including Harbin Long Feng Trading Co., Ltd, Huai An Nong Ye Zhi Bao Zhan and Heilongjiang JiuSan Agricultural Department. We anticipate that a similar percentage of our products will be sold through some of these and other distributors in 2008. Although we believe that our relationship with these distributors is good, we have no long term supply agreements with them and any or all of them could terminate their relationship with us in favor of competitors with increased productions capabilities or offering lower prices or other favorable terms. If some or all of these distributors reduce their orders or discontinue doing business with us, we could have difficulties finding new distributors to distribute our products and our revenues and net income could in turn decline considerably. Our reliance on these major distributors could also affect our bargaining power in getting favorable prices and shorter credit term given for our products. In addition, untimely payment and/or failure to pay by these major distributors would negatively affect our cash flow. We depend heavily on Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, and without his services our prospects would be severely limited. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continuing contribution of Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director. Mr. Chang has extensive experience in the liquid compound fertilizer industry and is directly involved in all of our business operations. Mr. Chang had a 3-year employment agreement with our subsidiary, Pacific Dragon, which expired on January 5, 2008. Mr. Chang continues to serve in the same manner as prior to the expiration of his contract and intends to enter into a new employment agreement in the near future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain Mr. Chang after the expiration of his new employment agreement. If Mr. Chang ceases to be employed by us, we may have difficulty finding a suitable replacement with equal leadership and industry experience, and our business would suffer because we will not have the leadership needed to capitalize on market opportunities and to direct our growth, leading to a possible decrease in revenues and inappropriate capital investments in projects that may not benefit our long-term growth. Mr. Chang has both sales contacts in the Agricultural industry and know-how to produce our products, making his expertise both unique and valuable to us. We face risks associated with recent and future investments or acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses that will enable us, among other things, to expand the fertilizer products we offer to our existing target customer base, expand our production capacity, lower our costs for raw materials and components and capitalize on opportunities to expand into new markets. If we are unable to identify acquisition candidates or to effectively and efficiently acquire and integrate such businesses into our existing business, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products or maintain a competitive advantage over our competitors in terms of products offered, supply capacity, product price and quality. Even if we are able to identify and acquire additional businesses, if we are unable to efficiently integrate such businesses, then the anticipated advantages of such acquisitions may be lost and our costs could increase, our margins could decline and our financial results could be significantly harmed. 15 During the past 12 months, we expanded our operations through our recently formed Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech operating subsidiaries which we expect to contribute to our future growth. Anhui Agritech operates our facility in the Anhui province and manufactures and sells our fertilizer products to customers in the Anhui, Hubei, and Henan provinces of China. Beijing Agritech supervises our Beijing operation, which serves as a research and development center and our primary syrup production center and converting factory. In the future, we may be unable to identify other suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we complete any such investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Integrating an acquired business is distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. The successful integration of our any newly established or acquired businesses require us to: · integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; · incorporate the newly developed products or additional capabilities into our offerings from an product development, sales and marketing perspective; · coordinate research and development efforts; · integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and · consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. We may be unsuccessful in effectively performing these tasks. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated also present significant challenges. If we are unsuccessful in our investments and acquisitions our financials results may be harmed by the lost transaction costs, potential disposition costs if the target is resold later and lost opportunities our management is unable to capitalize upon while focused on the investments and acquisitions. See also “If we fail to effectively expand our operations and capacity to satisfy demand for our fertilizer products, our results of operations and business prospects could be impaired” above. We depend heavily on skilled personnel, and any loss of such personnel, or the failure to continue to attract such personnel in the future, could harm our business. The agricultural chemicals business is specialized and requires the employment of personnel with significant scientific and operational experience in the industry. Accordingly, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically and scientifically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional management and other key personnel that have the necessary scientific, technical and operational skills and experience with the fertilizer industry. These individuals are difficult to find in the PRC and we may not be able to retain such skilled employees. If we are unable to hire the correct individuals we may not be able to produce enough product to optimize profits, research and development initiatives may be delayed and we may encounter disruptions in production and research which will negatively impact our financial condition. 16 Any disruption of the operations in our factories would damage our business. All of our fertilizer products are currently manufactured in our factories in Harbin, Beijing, and Anhui, China. We currently maintain insurance covering only our leased factories. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control. Any disruption of the operations in our factories would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products, because we would likely not be able to outsource our production on terms favorable to the company, if at all. Failure to be able to replace any lost production capability would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, loss of valuable employees, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. We currently rely on a small number of third parties to supply the key raw materials we use to produce our products. Our business depends upon the availability of key raw materials, including humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, kalium, and other supplementary material. We rely on only a few external suppliers for these raw materials. In fiscal year 2007, we purchased approximately 10.35% of our humic acid from Inner-Mongolia Humic Acid Factory, approximately 19.12% of our nitrogen, phosphorus and kalium from Beijing Zhongxin Chemical Technology Development Co., and approximately 20.85% of our other supplementary material from Shenzhen Hongchou Technology Company. For the 2008 fiscal year, we expect that our raw materials suppliers will be substantially similar to past years and the amount of raw materials will increase commensurate with the increase in the demand of our fertilizer products. We have entered into written agreements with all of these suppliers. If any of our major suppliers were to default or become unable to deliver the raw materials in sufficient quantities, we may be unable to purchase these raw materials from alternative sources on the same or similar terms, which could result in a significant increase in our operating costs. In addition, any disruption in the supply of our raw materials could cause delay in the delivery of our products which would be harmful to our sales reputation and business. If supply is disrupted the increased amount we have to pay for raw materials could negatively impact our margins, cause us to delay deliveries which may cause us to breach contracts or damage customer relationships or cause us to cease production if an alternate supplier cannot be found. If we were unable to procure replacement supplies, our ability to meet the production demands of our customers could cause the loss of customers and/or market share. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by the lost sales or decreased margins. If we cannot protect the proprietary formula and manufacturing processes for our concentrated organic liquid compound fertilizer it could increase our competition and cause our operating results to suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary formula and manufacturing process for highly concentrated organic liquid compound fertilizer products. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary formulas and manufacturing processes. We have not applied for patents for our technology and formulas because we believe an application for such patents would result in public knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas and could lead competitors to attempt to copy our products, thereby increasing competition. This could in turn result in a decrease of our market share and hurt our operating results. Our subsidiary Pacific Dragon has entered into a license agreement with Mr. Yu Chang, our Chairman CEO and President, under which Mr. Chang granted us an exclusive license to use his know-how in manufacturing organic liquid compound fertilizer on a royalty-free basis. Under the license agreement, Mr. Chang has the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of this technology and is prohibited from licensing this technology to any third party or using the technology for his own benefit. In addition, only certain of our key executives have knowledge of our proprietary technology and formulas. Despite these precautions, the legal regime protecting intellectual property rights in China is weak. If we are not able to enforce our licensing agreement with Mr. Chang, and fully protect our proprietary trade secrets, if our employees unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential technology to competitors, or if our competitors independently develop similar or superior products, our competitors may be able to more effectively offer products similar to ours and/or produce products with a cost structure similar to ours, if not better, and we may thereby lose any competitive advantage that we currently have. If we are forced to take legal action to protect our proprietary formula and processes, we will incur significant expense and further could not guarantee a favorable outcome. 17 In addition, our competitors may counterfeit our products and use our trademark. These counterfeit products could damage our reputation and create confusion for our customers. Our financial results would be negatively impacted by the lost sales to the fake and/or competitive product or by lost sales from a damaged reputation. Certain of our officers and directors' associations with other business enterprises could impede their ability to devote ample time to our business and could pose conflicts of interest. Mr. Yu Chang, our CEO, President, Secretary and director, and Ms. Xiaorong Teng, our Chief Operating Officer, serve as the chairman and a director, respectively, of Yinlong Industrial Co. Ltd. These existing responsibilities to another entity could limit the amount of time they can spend on our affairs. Mr. Chang currently spends about 90% of his time on our affairs and about 10% of his time on the affairs of Yinlong. Ms. Teng currently spends about 95% of her time on our affairs and about 5% of her time on the affairs of Yinlong. In addition, in carrying out their responsibilities for both us and Yinlong, Mr. Chang and Ms. Teng could face conflicts of interest from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. Our financials results could be negatively impacted if our officers and directors do not capitalize on opportunities for us because of their other obligations or if we are unable to take advantage of a potential opportunity because of a perceived conflict of interest with an officer and/or director. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. We are subject to this requirement commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and a report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, SOX 404 requires the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, this annual report does not include an attestation report because under current law, we will not be subject to these requirements until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We may need to raise additional capital in the foreseeable future and may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us or you or at all. Part of our strategy involves increasing our fertilizer production capacity by constructing additional manufacturing facilities and making strategic investments and acquisitions which require significant capital resources. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $11.4 million in cash with $11,415 in restricted cash. Based on current reserves and anticipated cash flow from our operations, we anticipate that the available funds will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures and business expansion for the next twelve months. If we decide to expand our business operations more broadly than currently anticipated or if cash flows from operations are inadequate for our capital needs, we may seek to satisfy our future capital requirements from the sale of our securities in public or private offerings, or through loans from financial institutions or our controlling stockholders. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or on terms satisfactory to us. A lack of funds also may cause us to delay, reduce and/or abandon certain or all aspects of our organic liquid compound fertilizer product research and development programs, close facilities and/or lay-off employees which, in turn, will likely result in decreased sales and profits. 18 If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced and our stockholders may experience additional dilution. In addition, such equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. This may reduce a stockholder's return on investment or cause a complete loss in the investment. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than the direct and indirect ownership of our subsidiaries Pacific Dragon, Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech. We have no current intention of paying dividends. As a holding company, if we decide to pay dividends in the future our ability to do so will depend upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. Our operating subsidiaries may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us due to Chinese law, restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will not receive any dividends and will be unable to pay any dividends to our stockholders. Our inability to pay dividends may harm the market price of our stock. Risks Related To Our Industry Our operating results will suffer if the price of raw materials increases and we cannot pass the increased cost through to our customers. The primary raw materials included in our products are humic acid, nitrogen, phosphorus, kalium and other supplementary material. The prices for these raw materials are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including energy costs, organic chemical feedstock, market demand, and freight costs. The prices for these raw materials may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in these forces. Our operating results may be seriously harmed if we are unable to pass any raw material price increases through to our customers due to lower margins from our sales. If we are forced to increase prices of our products due to increases in the prices of raw materials, the demand for our products could decrease, which could materially harm our operations and financial results. See “If we fail to accurately project market demand for our products, our business expansion plan could be jeopardized and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer” above. 19 If we cannot renew our fertilizer registration certificate, which expired in December, 2007, or we cannot maintain our manufacturing license we will be unable to sell some of our products which will cause our sales revenues to significantly decrease. All fertilizers produced in China must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture and receive a registration certificate. No fertilizer can be manufactured without such registration. There are two kinds of registrations: interim registration and formal registration. The interim registration is valid for one year and applies to fertilizers in the stages of in-the-field testing and test selling. Fertilizers that have completed in-the-field testing and test selling must obtain formal registration, which is valid for five years, and thereafter must be renewed each five years. We have obtained a Formal Fertilizer Registration Certificate covering all of our fertilizer products from the PRC Ministry of Agriculture. Such certificate was issued on September 3, 2002 and expired in December, 2007. We began pursuing renewal of this certificate prior to its expiration and we expect to complete the renewal process in early of April 2008. Our belief is that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture generally will grant an application for renewal in the absence of illegal activity by the applicant. However, there is no guarantee that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture will grant renewal of our Formal Fertilizer Registration Certificate. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China which will cause the termination of our commercial operations. We may also be warned by the government and fined up to RMB20,000 for operating without a Fertilizer Registration Certificate. We also must maintain a license to manufacture certain types of fertilizer in the PRC. We currently have a valid license to manufacture those types of fertilizer. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to renew our Manufacturing License in the future. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China which will cause the termination of our commercial operations. We may fined 15% to 20% of the value of the products illegally manufactured and/or sold and if any loss is caused by our manufacturing, the government can investigate the company’s legal liabilities according to law. Adverse weather conditions could reduce demand for fertilizer products. The demand for our organic fertilizer products fluctuates significantly with weather conditions, which may delay the application of the fertilizer or render it unnecessary at all. If any natural disasters, such as flood, drought, hail, tornado or earthquake, occur, the demand for our products could be reduced. In addition, in some cases, we allow our distributors to purchase our products partially on credit. The distributors, in turn, may sell the fertilizer to farmers on credit. If any natural disaster occurs, reduced crop yields may cause farmers to default on their payments which could harm our cash flow and results of operations. If we are unable to collect on our sales our cash flows will decrease and we will have additional expenses from bad debts which will harm our published financials results. Competition in the fertilizer industry in China and elsewhere is intense. We compete with approximately 300 small-sized, local Chinese fertilizer manufacturers. The number of these small companies varies from time to time. While we may have greater resources than our smaller competitors, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects, an enhanced ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and established local distribution channels within a small region. Furthermore, we face competition from large domestic and international fertilizer producers and traders who import fertilizers into China such as Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co., Ltd (www.psb.com.cn), Henan Luo Xiaowang Group (www.luoxiaowang.com), and Shangdong Tianda 2116 (www.2116.cn). Our major international competitors are Phosyn from the UK (www.cuikang.com/news/), Shi Ma (Chinese translation) part of BASF of Germany, Kemira GrowHow Oyj from Finland, and Leffingwell from the USA. These imported products range from fertilizers with single chemical elements, such as urea, phosphate and potash, to standard nitrogen phosphate, potassium compound fertilizers. The quality of the imported products is generally higher and more stable than fertilizers produced in China. While our resources may not be as great as our larger competitors, we believe our product quality, sales network, brand recognition and sales network are superior. If our competitors are able to gain greater market share or improve their sales efforts, our sales may decrease, we may be forced to lower our prices, or our marketing costs may increase, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. Historically, imported fertilizers have been subject to tariffs, duties and quota imposed by the Chinese government. In connection with China's entry into the World Trade Organization, based on the WTO commitment, the Chinese government started to allow foreign companies to sell and distribute fertilizers beginning in December, 2006. As the Chinese fertilizer market starts to gain more market participants, we will face increased competition which may create pricing, supply and demand constraints and cause our profit margins to suffer. 20 The fertilizer products that we manufacture pose safety risks and could expose us to product liability claims. Defects in, or unknown harmful effects caused by, organic and inorganic chemical and elements in our products could subject us to potential product liability claims that our products cause some harm to the human body or to property. Although we have adopted safety measures of industry standard in our research, development and manufacturing processes, accidents may still occur. Any accident, either at the manufacturing phase or during the use of our products, may subject us to significant liabilities to persons harmed by these products. We have renewed product liability insurance to cover claims from personal injuries or property damage caused by our products for the period from July 11, 2007 to July 10, 2008. Our insurance coverage was limited to approximately $500,000 (RMB 4,000,000) and may not have been sufficient to cover potential claims. A successful claim against us that is in excess of our insurance coverage could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Public perception that our products are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and our business. As of the filing of this Report, no product liability claim has ever been brought against us. However, if we are involved in litigation in the future the potential judgment or settlement along with the litigation costs could harm our financial performance. Risks Related To Doing Business In China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. 21 As the PRC economy continues to transition from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented and continues to implement various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources by controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us, especially if such measures create an unfriendly environment for businesses in the agricultural sector of the economy. For example, PRC governmental entities, whether local or national, could implement additional regulations requiring the payment of increased taxes, tariffs or other duties, or increase the level of government supervision, review, licensing or other involvement in our operations and expansion efforts. Such regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business, producing products or acquisition efforts. We may not be able to pass these additional costs along to costumers by increasing the costs of our products, or if we are forced to increase the prices of our products, our sales may be negatively effected and our competitors, whether in other areas of the PRC or internationally, may gain an advantage over the company. If the PRC government changes laws to which we are subject, particularly laws relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters our business could be harmed. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China, primarily Pacific Dragon, Anhui Agritech and Beijing Agritech. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. For example, while contractual disputes occurs, the arbitration will be brought to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission (“CIETAC”) in accordance with CIETAC Arbitration Rules, the agreements are governed by PRC law and an arbitration award may be challenged in accordance with PRC law. For example, a claim that the enforcement of an award in our favor will be detrimental to the public interest, or that an issue does not fall within the scope of the arbitration would require us to engage in administrative and judicial proceedings to defend an award. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes and unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent. As a result, China’s administrative and judicial authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, and it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and judicial proceedings and the level of legal protection available than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the terms of the contracts that we may enter into with our business partners. Any inability to enforce agreement or an award thereunder could materially and adversely affect our business and operation. The inability to get the benefits of the contractual rights for which we bargained may also negatively impact our financial results as we may have expenditures that are not match with reciprical benefits. 22 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October, 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June, 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents, as defined in Circular 75, have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 23 Our business will suffer if we lose our land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of the PRC, its agencies and collectives. Land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 70 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be transferred upon approval by the land administrative authorities of the PRC (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land transfer fee. We have received the necessary land use right certificate for our primary operating facilities, but we can give no assurance that our land use rights will be renewed on terms favorable to us or renewed at all. If we lose our land right certificates we may lose production facilities that may be difficult or impossible to replace. Should we have to relocate, our workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and our operations will be disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause us to lose sales and/or increase our costs of production, which will negatively impact our financial results. Accounting laws in China mandate accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and therefore our financials and their interpretation involve uncertainties. The PRC accounting laws require an annual "statutory audit" to be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and the books of foreign invested enterprises to be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. These Chinese accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Article 14 of the PRC Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities. Noncompliance with such requirements may cause revocation of our business license. The translation of the financial statements from the requirements of the PRC to U.S. GAAP, requires interpretation and exercise of judgment. This may increase costs or cause additional errors. Moreover, our PRC accounting records may not convert directly into the needed U.S. GAAP accounting records, causing inaccuracies or misstatements that could negatively impact our ability to get a clean audit opinion in the U.S. or may lead to fines by certain governmental bodies, which could negatively impact our financial performance and/or stock price. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. 24 Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. This could negatively impact our financial performance as it may limit our ability to reallocate capital and to take advantage of market opportunities. Fluctuations in exchange rates could hurt our business and the value of our stock. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars following this offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue after this offering that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July, 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. If Renminbi weakens relative to the dollar our earnings will be less valuable in terms of the equivalent U.S. Dollars which may negatively impact our stock price. We own our PRC subsidiaries rather than merely having a contractual relationship with such entities. We own our PRC subsidiaries, as opposed to having a mere contractual relationship with entities who operate in the PRC. This makes our investment in the PRC more rigid and long-term. We may be unable to quickly sell, dispose of our subsidiaries or exit the PRC if conditions in the PRC become unfavorable for business. Should we wish to exit the PRC and be unable to do so the value of stock may decrease due to our inability to relocate our corporate operations. 25 Risks Related To Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile which could result in a complete loss of your investment. Our stock is not widely traded or traded in great volume so the market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of new products by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · conditions in the fertilizer market; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in fertilizer production; · announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · potential litigation. Our stock price could change very quickly and could move in a negative direction at any time. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Mr. Yu Chang is the beneficial owner of approximately 41.85% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he possesses significant influence, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. This might result in limitations on, or a decrease in the price of, our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC bulletin board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol "CAGC.OB." The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called "penny stocks" to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of December 31, 2007, the closing price for our common stock was $2.84 per share and, therefore, it is designated a "penny stock." Although since February 3, 2005, we have met the net worth exemption from the "penny stock" definition, no assurance can be given that such exemption will be maintained. As a "penny stock," our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the "Penny Stock Rule." This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. 26 Unless exempt, for any transaction involving a penny stock, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in the penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of a penny stock if the SEC determines that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We currently do not have any unresolved comments of issues with the Staff of the Corporation Finance Division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 