Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Units and Related Unitholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Expenses PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES Throughout this document we make statements that are classified as “forward-looking.” Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” included later in this section for an explanation of these types of assertions. Also, in this document, unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “MarkWest Energy” or the “Partnership” are intended to mean MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P., and its consolidated subsidiaries. Glossary of Terms In addition, the following is a list of certain acronyms and terms used throughout the document: Bbls barrels Bbl/d barrels per day Bcf one billion cubic feet of natural gas Btu one British thermal unit, an energy measurement Gal/d gallons per day Mcf one thousand cubic feet of natural gas Mcf/d one thousand cubic feet of natural gas per day MMBtu one million British thermal units, an energy measurement MMcf one million cubic feet of natural gas MMcf/d one million cubic feet of natural gas per day MTBE methyl tertieary butyl ether Net operating margin (a non-GAAP financial measure) revenues less purchased product costs NGLs natural gas liquids, such as propane, butanes and natural gasoline NA not applicable Tcf one trillion cubic feet of natural gas 2 Forward-Looking Statements Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We use words such as “may,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “project,” “anticipate,” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results of operations or our actual financial condition to differ include, but are not necessarily limited to: • our ability to successfully integrate our recent or future acquisitions;• the availability of natural gas supply for our gathering and processing services;• the availability of crude oil refinery runs to feed our Javelina off-gas processing facility;• the availability of NGLs for our transportation, fractionation and storage services;• our dependence on certain significant customers, producers, gatherers, treaters, and transporters of natural gas, including MarkWest Hydrocarbon;• the risks that third-party oil and gas exploration and production activities will not occur or be successful;• prices of natural gas and NGL products, including the effectiveness of any hedging activities;• competition from other NGL processors, including m ajor energy companies;• changes in general economic, market or business conditions in regions where our products are located;• our ability to identify and complete organic growth projects or acquisitions complementary to our business;• the success of our risk management policies;• continued creditworthiness of, and performance by, contract counterparties;• operational hazards and availability and cost of insurance on our assets and operations;• the impact of any failure of our information technology systems;• the impact of current and future laws and government regulations;• liability for environmental claims;• damage to facilities and interruption of service due to casualty, weather, mechanical failure or any extended or extraordinary maintenance or inspection that may be required;• the impact of the departure of any key executive officers; and• our ability to raise sufficient capital to execute our business plan through borrowing or issuing equity. This list is not necessarily complete. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. The Partnership does not update publicly any forward-looking statement with new information or future events. Investors are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements as many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. You should read “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K for further information. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. is a publicly traded Delaware limited partnership formed by MarkWest Hydrocarbon, Inc. on January 25, 2002, to acquire most of the assets, liabilities and operations of the MarkWest Hydrocarbon Midstream Business. We are a master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, transportation and processing of natural gas; the transportation, fractionation and storage of NGLs; and the gathering and transportation of crude oil. We are the largest processor of natural gas in the Appalachia region. We also have a large natural gas gathering and transmission business in the southwestern United States, built primarily through acquisitions and investments: Pinnacle Natural Gas, the Lubbock transmission pipeline and the Foss Lake gathering system, all in 2003; the Carthage gathering system in East Texas in July 2004; a non-controlling, 50% interest in Starfish Pipeline Company, LLC and the Javelina entities’ natural gas processing and fractionation facility and pipeline in Corpus Christi, Texas, both in 2005. MarkWest Energy Partners generates revenues for providing gathering, processing, transportation, fractionation, and storage services. The partnership believes that the largely fee-based nature of its business and the relatively long-term nature of its contracts provide a relatively stable base of cash flows. As a publicly traded partnership, we have access to, and regularly utilize, both equity and debt capital markets as a source of financing, as well as that provided by our credit facility and the ability to use common units in connection with acquisitions. Our limited partnership structure also provides tax advantages to our unitholders. We conduct our operations in three geographical areas: the Southwest, the Northeast and the Gulf Coast. Our assets and operations in each of these areas are described below. • Southwest Business Unit • East Texas. We own the East Texas System, consisting of natural gas-gathering system pipelines, centralized compressor stations, and a natural gas processing facility and NGL pipeline that are currently under construction. • Western Oklahoma. We own the Foss Lake gathering system and the Arapaho gas-processing plant, located in Roger Mills and Custer counties of western Oklahoma. The gathering portion consists of a pipeline system that is connected to natural gas wells and associated compression facilities. • Other Southwest. We own 17 natural gas-gathering systems located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and New Mexico, including the Appleby Gathering System in Nacogdoches, Texas. In addition, we own four lateral pipelines in Texas and New Mexico. • Northeast Business Unit • Appalachia. We are the largest processor of natural gas in the Appalachian Basin with fully integrated processing, fractionation, storage and marketing operations. Our Appalachian assets include five natural gas-processing plants, an NGL pipeline, an NGL fractionation plant and two caverns for storing propane. • Michigan. We own and operate a crude oil pipeline in Michigan, which we refer to as the Michigan Crude Pipeline. We also own a natural gas-gathering system and a natural gas-processing plant in Michigan. • Gulf Coast Business Unit • Javelina. We own and operate the Javelina Processing Facility, a natural gas processing facility in Corpus Christi, Texas, which processes off-gas from six local refineries. The facility processes approximately 125 to 130 MMcf/d of inlet gas, but is expected to process up to its capacity of 142 MMcf/d as refinery output continues to grow. 4 Industry Overview, Competition MarkWest Energy Partners provides services in most areas of the natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation industry. The following diagram illustrates the typical natural gas gathering, processing and fractionation process: The natural gas gathering process begins with the drilling of wells into gas bearing rock formations. Once completed, the well is connected to a gathering system. Gathering systems typically consist of a network of small diameter pipelines and, if necessary, compression systems, that collect natural gas from points near producing wells, and transport it to larger pipelines for further transmission. Natural gas has a widely varying composition, depending on the field, the formation reservoir or facility from which it is produced. The principal constituents of natural gas are methane and ethane. Most natural gas also contains varying amounts of heavier components, such as propane, butane, natural gasoline and inert substances that may be removed by any number of processing methods. Most natural gas produced at the wellhead is not suitable for long-haul pipeline transportation or commercial use. It must be gathered, compressed and transported via pipeline to a central facility, and then processed to remove the heavier hydrocarbon components and other contaminants that interfere with pipeline transportation or the end-use of the gas. Our business includes providing these services either for a fee or a percentage of the NGLs removed or gas units processed. The industry as a whole is characterized by regional competition, based on the proximity of gathering systems and processing plants to producing natural gas wells, or to facilities that produce natural gas as a by-product of refining crude oil. MarkWest Energy also provides processing and fractionation services to crude oil refineries in the Corpus Christi, Texas, area through its Javelina Gas Processing and Fractionation facility. While similar to the natural gas industry diagram outlined above, the following diagram illustrates the significant gas processing and fractionation processes at the Javelina Facility: Natural gas processing and treating involves the separation of raw natural gas into pipeline-quality natural gas, principally methane, and NGLs, as well as the removal of contaminants. Raw natural gas from the wellhead is gathered at a processing plant, typically located near the production area, where it is dehydrated and treated, and then processed to recover a mixed NGL stream. In the case of our Javelina facilities, the natural gas inputs to our processing plant are a byproduct of the crude oil refining process. The removal and separation of individual hydrocarbons by processing is possible because of differences in physical properties. Each component has a distinctive weight, boiling point, vapor pressure and other physical characteristics. Natural gas may also be diluted or contaminated by water, sulfur compounds, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, helium or other components. After being separated from natural gas at the processing plant, the mixed NGL stream is typically transported to a centralized facility for fractionation. Fractionation is the process by which NGLs are further separated into individual, more marketable components, primarily ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane and natural gasoline. Fractionation systems typically exist either as an integral part of a gas processing plant or as a “central fractionator,” often located many miles from the primary production and processing facility. A central fractionator may receive mixed streams of NGLs from many processing plants. Described below are the five basic NGL products and their typical uses: • Ethane is used primarily as feedstock in the production of ethylene, one of the basic building blocks for a wide range of plastics and other chemical products. Ethane is not produced at our Siloam fractionator, as there is little petrochemical demand for ethane in Appalachia. It remains, therefore, in the natural gas stream. Ethane, however, is produced and sold in our East Texas and Oklahoma operations. • Propane is used for heating, engine and industrial fuels, agricultural burning and drying, and as a petrochemical feedstock for the production of ethylene and propylene. Propane is principally used as a fuel in our operating areas. 5 • Normal butane is principally used for gasoline blending, as a fuel gas, either alone or in a mixture with propane, and as a feedstock for the manufacture of ethylene and butadiene, a key ingredient of synthetic rubber. • Isobutane is principally used by refiners to enhance the octane content of motor gasoline, as well as in the production of MTBE, an additive in cleaner-burning motor gasoline. • Natural gasoline is principally used as a motor gasoline blend stock or petrochemical feedstock. We face competition for natural gas and crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services operations; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas-gathering facilities and gas-processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability, and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers, and cost efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility, and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. Our competitors include: • other large natural gas gatherers that gather, process and market natural gas and NGLs; • major integrated oil companies; • medium and large sized independent exploration and production companies; • major interstate and intrastate pipelines; and • a large number of smaller gas gatherers of varying financial resources and experience. Many of our competitors operate as master limited partnerships and enjoy a cost of capital comparable to and, in some cases, lower than ours. Other competitors, such as major oil and gas and pipeline companies, have capital resources and control supplies of natural gas substantially greater than ours. Smaller local distributors may enjoy a marketing advantage in their immediate service areas. We believe our competitive strengths include: • Strategic and growing position with high-quality assets in the Southwest and the Gulf Coast. Our acquisitions have allowed us to establish and expand our presence in several long-lived natural gas supply basins in the Southwest, particularly in Texas and Oklahoma and the Gulf Coast. Our two acquisitions in 2005 represent a substantial expansion of this strategy by providing direct access to the prolific Gulf Coast region. All of our major acquisitions in these regions have been characterized by several common critical success factors that include: • an existing strong competitive position; • access to a significant reserve or customer base with a stable or growing production profile; • ample opportunities for long-term continued organic growth; • ready access to markets; and • close proximity to other acquisition or expansion opportunities. Specifically, our East Texas System and our Pinnacle gathering systems are located in the East Texas and Permian basins in Texas. Our Foss Lake gathering system and our associated Arapaho gas processing plant, which we refer to as our western Oklahoma assets, are located in the Anadarko basin in Oklahoma. We believe the East Texas System and our western Oklahoma assets are located in some of the largest and most prolific natural gas-producing regions in the United States. They also feature new, low-cost gathering systems that provide producers with low-pressure and fuel-efficient service, a significant competitive advantage for us over many competing gathering systems in those areas. We believe this competitive advantage is evidenced by our growing throughput volumes on our East Texas, Appleby, and Western Oklahoma areas of operations. We believe that both Starfish and Javelina, our 2005 acquisitions, will offer similar opportunities in their areas as well. 6 • Leading position in the Appalachian Basin. We are the largest processor of natural gas in Appalachia. We believe our significant presence and asset base provide us with a competitive advantage in capturing and contracting for new supplies of natural gas. The Appalachian Basin is a large natural gas-producing region characterized by long-lived reserves with modest decline rates and natural gas with high NGL content. These reserves provide a stable supply of natural gas for our processing plants and our Siloam NGL fractionation facility. Our concentrated infrastructure, and available land and storage assets in Appalachia should provide us with a platform for additional cost-effective expansion. • Stable cash flows. We believe our numerous fee-based contracts and our active commodity risk management program provide us with stable cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated approximately 49% of our net operating margin from fee-based services. Net operating margin is a non-GAAP financial measure. For a discussion of net operating margin and a reconciliation to income from operations, please see “Our Contracts.” These depend on throughput volume, but are typically not affected by short-term changes in commodity prices. In addition, a portion of our fee-based business is generated by our four lateral pipelines in the Southwest, which typically provide fixed transportation fees independent of the volumes transported. We also believe that an active commodity risk management program is a significant component of providing stable cash flows as our commodity exposure grows with our expanding operations. • Common carrier crude oil pipeline in Michigan. We own a common carrier crude oil gathering pipeline in Michigan. Our pipeline receives oil directly from in-state well production and is connected to Enbridge pipeline for transportation to interstate destinations. We enjoy a competitive advantage over higher cost crude oil transportation alternatives such as trucking. Most of the crude oil we transport in the state is produced from the Niagaran Reef Trend, which is generally characterized by long-lived crude oil reserves. • Long-term Contracts. We believe our long-term contracts, which we define as contracts with remaining terms of four years or more, lend greater stability to our cash-flow profile. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 54% of our net operating margin was tied to long-term contracts. In East Texas, approximately 77% of our current gathering volumes as of December 31, 2005, are under contract until 2010. Two of our Pinnacle lateral pipelines operate under fixed-fee contracts for the transmission of natural gas that expire in approximately 16 and 24 years, respectively. Approximately 45% of our daily throughput in the Foss Lake gathering system and Arapaho processing plant in western Oklahoma is subject to contracts with remaining terms of five years or more. In Appalachia, we have natural gas processing and NGL fractionation contracts with remaining terms from 5 to 11 years. In Michigan, our natural gas transportation, treating and processing agreements have remaining terms of 10 to 22 years. • Experienced management with operational, technical and acquisition expertise. Each member of our executive management team has substantial experience in the energy industry. Our facility managers have extensive experience operating our facilities. Our operational and technical expertise has enabled us to upgrade our existing facilities, as well as to design and build new ones. Since our initial public offering in May 2002, our management team has utilized a disciplined approach to analyze and evaluate numerous acquisition opportunities, and has completed eight acquisitions. We intend to continue to use our management’s experience and disciplined approach in evaluating and acquiring assets to grow through accretive acquisitions – those acquisitions expected to increase our throughput volumes and cash flow distributable to our unitholders. • Financial strength and flexibility. During 2005, we issued approximately $100.0 million of equity. Our goal is to maintain a capital structure with approximately equal amounts of debt and equity on a long-term basis. As of December 31, 2005, we have available borrowing capacity of approximately $74.8 million under our $250.0 million revolving credit facility. This amount is determined on a quarterly basis and is further adjusted to take into consideration the cash flow contribution of an acquisition at the time of its closing. This facility, together with our ability to issue additional partnership units for financing and acquisition purposes, should provide us with a flexible financial structure that will facilitate the execution of our business strategy. Our primary business strategy is to grow our business and increase distributable cash flows to our common unitholders, improving financial flexibility and increasing our ability to access capital to fund our growth. We plan to accomplish this through the following: • Increasing utilization of our facilities. We hope to add to, or provide additional services to, our existing customers, and to provide services to other natural gas and crude oil producers in our areas of operation. 7 Increased drilling activity in our core areas of operation, particularly within certain fields in the Southwest, should also produce increasing natural gas and crude oil supplies, and a corresponding increase in utilization of our transportation, gathering, processing and fractionation facilities. In the meantime, we continue to develop additional capacity at several of our facilities, which enables us to increase throughput with minimal incremental costs. • Expanding operations through internal growth projects. By expanding our existing infrastructure and customer relationships, we intend to continue growing in our primary areas of operation to meet the anticipated need for additional midstream services. During 2005, we spent approximately $70.8 million of growth capital to expand several of our gathering and processing operations. Projects included a new 200 MMcf/d gas processing facility and related liquids pipeline in East Texas, initial construction of the Blocker Field gathering system, also in East Texas, as well as compression and gathering capacity to support increasing throughput volumes in the fields associated with our Appleby gathering system in East Texas and our Foss Lake gathering system in Oklahoma. In the first quarter of 2005, we completed a new, more efficient processing plant to replace our Cobb processing plant in Appalachia and on January 1, 2006 the aforementioned East Texas processing facility began operation. • Expanding operations through strategic acquisitions. We intend to continue pursuing strategic acquisitions of assets and businesses in our existing areas of operation that leverage our current asset base, personnel and customer relationships. During 2005, we spent approximately $398.3 million, including net working capital, to acquire Javelina and $41.7 million to acquire a 50% non-controlling interest in Starfish, two strategic assets in the Gulf Coast region. We will also seek to acquire assets in certain regions outside of our current areas of operation. • Securing additional long-term, fee-based contracts. We intend to continue to secure long-term, fee-based contracts in both our existing operations and strategic acquisitions, in order to further minimize our exposure to short-term changes in commodity prices. The Partnership engages in risk management activities in order to reduce the effect of commodity price volatility related to future sales of natural gas, ethane, propane and crude. It may utilize a combination of fixed-price forward contracts, fixed-for-floating price swaps and options available in the over-the-counter market, and futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The Partnership monitors these activities through enforcement of our risk management policy (see Item 7A, “Commodity Price Risk”). To better understand our business and the results of operations discussed in Item 6, “Selected Financial Data” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” it is important to have an understanding of three factors: • the nature of the contracts from which we derive our revenues; • the difficulty in comparing our results of operations across periods because of our acquisition activity; and • the nature of our relationship with MarkWest Hydrocarbon, Inc. Our Contracts We generate substantially all of our revenues and net operating margin (defined as revenues less purchased product costs – see explanation of net operating margin below) from natural gas gathering, processing and transmission; NGL transportation, fractionation and storage; and crude oil gathering and transportation. We have a variety of contract types. In many cases, we provide services under contracts that contain a combination of more than one of the arrangements described below. • Fee-based arrangements. Under these arrangements, we receive fees for gathering, processing and transmission of natural gas; transportation, fractionation and storage of NGLs; and gathering and transportation of crude oil. The revenue we earn from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil that flows through our systems and facilities, and is not directly dependent on commodity prices. In certain cases, our arrangements provide for minimum annual payments. Should a sustained decline in commodity prices result in a decline in volumes, however, our revenues from these arrangements would be reduced. 8 • Percent-of-proceeds arrangements. Under these arrangements, we generally gather and process natural gas on behalf of producers, sell the resulting residue gas and NGLs at market prices, and remit to producers an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on an index price. In other cases, instead of remitting cash payments to the producer, we deliver an agreed-upon percentage of the residue gas and NGLs to the producer, and sell the volumes we keep to third parties at market prices. Under these types of arrangements, our revenues and net operating margins generally increase as natural gas prices and NGL prices increase, and our revenues and net operating margins decrease as natural gas and NGL prices decrease. The most common arrangement is a percent of liquids (or “POL”) contract. • Percent-of-index arrangements. Under these arrangements, we generally purchase natural gas at either (1) a percentage discount to a specified index price, (2) a specified index price less a fixed amount, or (3) a percentage discount to a specified index price less an additional fixed amount. We then gather and deliver the natural gas to pipelines, where we resell the natural gas at the index price, or at a different percentage discount to the index price. The net operating margins we realize under these arrangements decrease in periods of low natural gas prices, because these net operating margins are based on a percentage of the index price. Conversely, our net operating margins increase during periods of high natural gas prices. • Keep-whole arrangements. Under these arrangements, we gather natural gas from the producer, process the natural gas to extract NGLs, sell the NGLs to third parties and pay the producer, in the form of processed gas or its cash equivalent, for the full thermal equivalent volume of raw natural gas we received from the producer. Accordingly, our net operating margin is a function of the difference between the value of the extracted NGLs that we sell and the cost of the processed gas that would replace the thermal equivalent value of those NGLs. The profitability of these arrangements is subject not only to the commodity price risk of natural gas and NGLs but also to the price of natural gas relative to the price of NGLs. Our net operating margins increase under these arrangements when the value of NGLs is high relative to the cost of a thermal equivalent amount of natural gas, and our net operating margins decrease when the cost of natural gas is high relative to the value of a thermal equivalent amount of NGLs. • Settlement margin. Typically, we are allowed to retain a fixed percentage of the volume gathered to cover the compression fuel charges and deemed line losses. When our gathering systems operate more efficiently than specified, per contract allowance, we can retain the difference for our own account. • Condensate sales. During the gathering process, thermodynamic forces contribute to changes in operating characteristics of the natural gas flowing through the pipeline. As a result, hydrocarbon dew points are reached, causing condensation of hydrocarbons in the high-pressure pipelines. Condensate collected in the system is sold at a monthly crude-oil index-based price, and we keep the proceeds. The terms of our contracts vary based on gas quality, the competitive environment at the time the contracts are signed and customer requirements. Our contract mix and, accordingly, our exposure to natural gas and NGL prices, may change due to changes in producer preferences, our expansion in regions where some types of contracts are more common, and other market factors. Any change in mix will affect our financial results. At December 31, 2005, our primary exposure to keep-whole contracts was limited to our Arapaho (Oklahoma) processing plant and our East Texas processing contracts. At the Arapaho plant inlet, the Btu content of the natural gas meets the downstream pipeline specification, meaning it does not need to be processed to remove contaminants; however, we have the option of extracting NGLs when the processing margin environment is favorable. In addition, approximately half, as measured in volumes, of the related gas-gathering contracts include additional fees to cover plant operating costs, fuel costs and shrinkage costs in a low-processing margin environment. Because of our ability to operate the plant in several recovery modes, including turning it off, coupled with the additional fees provided for in the gas-gathering contracts, our overall keep-whole contract exposure is limited to a small portion of the operating costs of the plant. Approximately 25% of the gas processed in East Texas for producers was processed under keep-whole terms. Our keep-whole exposure in this area was offset to a great extent because the East Texas agreements provide for the retention of natural gas as a part of the gathering and compression arrangements with all producers on the system. This excess gas helps offset the amount of replacement natural gas purchases required to keep our producers whole on an MMbtu basis, thereby creating a partial natural hedge. The net result is a significant reduction in volatility for these changes in natural gas prices. The remaining volatility for these contracts results from changes in NGL prices. The Partnership has an active commodity risk management program in place to reduce the impacts of changing NGL prices. 9 Management evaluates contract performance on the basis of net operating margin (a “non-GAAP” financial measure), which is defined as income (loss) from operations, excluding facility expenses, selling, general and administrative expense, depreciation, amortization, impairments and accretion of asset retirement obligations. These charges have been excluded for the purpose of enhancing the understanding, by both management and investors, of the underlying baseline operating performance of our contractual arrangements, which management uses to evaluate our financial performance, for purposes of planning and forecasting future periods. Net operating margin does not have any standardized definition and, therefore, is unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other reporting companies. Net operating margin results should not be evaluated in isolation of, or as a substitute for, our financial results prepared in accordance with United States GAAP. Our usage of net operating margin, and the underlying methodology in excluding certain charges, is not necessarily an indication of the results of operations that may be expected in the future, or that we will not, in fact, incur such charges in future periods. The following reconciles this non-GAAP financial measure to income from operations, the most comparable GAAP financial measure (in thousands): December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Revenues $ 499,084 $ 301,314 $ 117,430 Purchased product costs 366,878 211,534 70,832 Net operating margin 132,206 89,780 46,598 Facility expenses 47,972 29,911 20,463 Selling, general and administrative expenses 21,573 16,133 8,598 Depreciation 19,534 15,556 7,548 Amortization of intangible assets 9,656 3,640 — Accretion of asset retirement obligation 159 13 — Impairments — 130 1,148 Income from operations $ 33,312 $ 24,397 $ 8,841 For the year ended December 31, 2005, the following table summarizes the percentages of revenue and net operating margin we generated by types of contracts, exclusive of the impact of commodity derivatives: Fee-Based Percent-of- Proceeds(1) Percent-of- Index(2) Keep-Whole(3) Total Revenues 13 % 12 % 34 % 41 % 100 % Net operating margin 49 % 15 % 29 % 7 % 100 % (1) Includes other types of arrangements tied to NGL prices. (2) Includes settlement margin, condensate sales and other types of arrangements tied to natural gas prices. (3) Includes settlement margin, condensate sales and other types of arrangements tied to both NGL and natural gas prices. Recent Acquisitions Since our initial public offering, we have completed eight acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $794 million, net of working capital. The following table sets forth information regarding each of these acquisitions: 10 Name Assets Location Consideration (in millions) Closing Date Javelina Gas processing and fractionation facility Corpus Christi, TX $ 398.3 November 1, 2005 Starfish (1) Natural gas pipeline, gathering system and dehydration facility Gulf of Mexico/Southern Louisiana $ 41.7 March 31, 2005 East Texas Gathering system and gas procession assets East Texas $ 240.7 July 30, 2004 Hobbs Natural gas pipeline New Mexico $ 2.3 April 1, 2004 Michigan Crude Pipeline Common carrier crude oil pipeline Michigan $ 21.3 December 18, 2003 Western Oklahoma Gathering system Western Oklahoma $ 38.0 December 1, 2003 Lubbock Pipeline Natural gas pipeline West Texas $ 12.2 September 2, 2003 Pinnacle Natural gas pipelines and gathering systems East Texas $ 39.9 March 28, 2003 (1) Represents a 50% non-controlling interest. Our Relationship with MarkWest Hydrocarbon, Inc. We were formed by MarkWest Hydrocarbon to acquire most of its natural gas gathering and processing assets and NGL transportation, fractionation and storage assets. Under a Services Agreement between MarkWest Hydrocarbon and us, MarkWest Hydrocarbon acts in a management capacity, rendering day-to-day operational, business, asset management, accounting, personnel and related administrative services to us. In return, we reimburse MarkWest Hydrocarbon for all expenses incurred on our behalf. In addition, we entered into various agreements with MarkWest Hydrocarbon in connection with the 2002 closing of our initial public offering. Specifically, we entered into: • an Omnibus Agreement Company governing potential competition and indemnification obligations among us and the other parties to the agreement; • a Gas Processing Agreement governing our obligations with respect to the processing of natural gas at our Kenova, Boldman and Cobb processing plants; • a Pipeline Liquids Transportation Agreement governing our obligations with respect to the transportation of mixed NGLs to our Siloam fractionation facility; • a Fractionation, Storage and Loading Agreement governing our obligations with respect to the unloading and fractionation of NGLs and the storage of the NGL products at our Siloam facility; and • a Natural Gas Liquids Purchase Agreement which governs our obligations with respect to the sale and purchase of NGL products we acquire under the Gas-Processing (Maytown) Agreement between a third party producer and MarkWest Hydrocarbon, which were assigned to us, as well as any other NGL products we acquire. For a more detailed description of these agreements, please see “Part III, Item 13—Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” 11 Segment Reporting Segments. We have six segments, based on geographic areas of operations, described below. For further information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Our Contracts,” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K, and “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Southwest Business Unit • East Texas. We own the East Texas System, consisting of natural gas-gathering system pipelines, centralized compressor stations, and a natural gas processing facility and NGL pipeline that are currently under construction. The East Texas System is located in Panola County and services the Carthage Field, one of Texas’ largest onshore natural gas fields. Producing formations in Panola County consist of the Cotton Valley, Pettit and Travis Peak formations, which together form one of the largest natural gas-producing regions in the United States. The Carthage Field has an estimated 18 Tcf of remaining recoverable reserves, and cumulative historical production in excess of 12 Tcf. • Oklahoma. We own the Foss Lake gathering system and the Arapaho gas-processing plant, located in Roger Mills and Custer counties of western Oklahoma. The gathering portion consists of a pipeline system that is connected to natural gas wells and associated compression facilities. All of the gathered gas ultimately is compressed and delivered to the processing plant. After processing, the residue gas is delivered to a third-party pipeline and natural gas liquids are sold to a single customer. • Other Southwest. We own 17 natural gas-gathering systems located in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and New Mexico. These systems generally service long-lived natural gas basins that continue to experience drilling activity. We gather a significant portion of the gas produced from fields adjacent to our gathering systems. In many areas we are the primary gatherer, and in some of the areas served by our smaller systems we are the sole gatherer. In addition, we own four lateral pipelines in Texas and New Mexico. Northeast Business Unit • Appalachia. We are the largest processor of natural gas in the Appalachian Basin with fully integrated processing, fractionation, storage and marketing operations. The Appalachian Basin is a large natural gas-producing region characterized by long-lived reserves and modest decline rates. Our Appalachian assets include five natural gas-processing plants, an NGL pipeline, an NGL fractionation plant and two caverns for storing propane. • Michigan. We own a common carrier crude oil gathering pipeline in Michigan. We refer to this system as the Michigan Crude Pipeline. We also own a natural gas gathering system and a natural gas processing plant in Michigan Gulf Coast Business Unit • Javelina. On November 1, 2005, we acquired 100% of the equity interests in Javelina Company, Javelina Pipeline Company and Javelina Land Company, L.L.C., which were owned 40%, 40% and 20%, respectively, by subsidiaries of El Paso Corporation, Kerr-McGee Corporation, and Valero Energy Corporation. The Javelina entities own and operate a natural gas processing facility in Corpus Christi, Texas, which treats and processes off-gas from six local refineries. The facility was constructed in 1989 to recover hydrogen and up to 28,000 barrels per day of NGLs, including olefins (ethylene and propylene), ethane, propane, mixed butane and pentanes. The facility processes approximately 125 to 130 MMcf/d of inlet gas, but is expected to process up to its capacity of 142 MMcf/d as refinery output continues to grow. The following summarizes the percentage of our revenue and net operating margin generated by our assets, by geographic region, for the year ended December 31, 2005: East Texas Oklahoma Other Southwest Appalachia Michigan Gulf Coast Total Revenue 17 % 43 % 21 % 13 % 3 % 3 % 100 % Net Operating Margin 36 % 15 % 11 % 21 % 7 % 10 % 100 % 12 Regulatory Matters Our activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as orders of regulatory bodies, governing a wide variety of matters, including marketing, production, pricing, community right-to-know, protection of the environment, safety and other matters. In many cases, various phases of our gas, liquids and crude oil operations in the states in which we operate are subject to rate and service regulation. Applicable statutes generally require that our rates, and terms and conditions of service, provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. In general, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has jurisdiction over natural gas pipelines and operators that provide natural gas pipeline transportation services in interstate commerce. Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Policy Act (“NGA”), however, exempts natural gas-gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of FERC. We own a number of natural gas pipelines that we have evaluated, and concluded they meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to the agency’s jurisdiction. Additionally, our intrastate natural gas pipeline operations generally are not subject to rate regulation by FERC, although they are regulated by various agencies of the states in which they are located, principally the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC. Our Appalachian pipeline carries NGLs across state lines. The primary shipper on the pipeline is MarkWest Hydrocarbon, which has entered into agreements with us providing for a fixed transportation charge for the term of the agreements. They expire on December 31, 2015. We are the only other shipper on the pipeline. As we neither operate our Appalachian pipeline as a common carrier, nor hold it out for service to the public generally, there are currently no third-party shippers on this pipeline and the pipeline is, and will continue to be, operated as a proprietary facility. The likelihood of other entities seeking to utilize our Appalachian pipeline is remote, so it should not be subject to regulation by the FERC in the future. We cannot provide assurance, however, that FERC will not at some point determine that such transportation is within its jurisdiction, or that such an assertion would not adversely affect our results of operations. In such a case, we would be required to file a tariff with FERC and provide a cost justification for the transportation charge. Regardless of any FERC action, however, MarkWest Hydrocarbon has agreed to not challenge the status of our Appalachian pipeline or the transportation charge during the term of our agreements. With respect to the Partnership’s Michigan Crude Pipeline, in response to a shipper inquiry to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and following unsuccessful FERC-requested rate structure discussions with the shippers, FERC recently requested that we file a tariff. The Partnership filed a tariff with the agency establishing a cost-of-service rate structure to be effective starting January 1, 2006. Two shippers and a producer protested the filing. The Partnership vigorously defended its tariff, and on December 29, 2005, the Commission rejected the protestors’ request for interim rates and accepted the Partnership’s filing. The new rate structure became effective January 1, 2006. The Commission established hearing procedures for the tariff filing, but held them in abeyance pending the outcome of FERC-sponsored settlement discussions, which the parties now have been referred to under the agency’s procedures. The Partnership cannot predict whether the FERC tariff protest or any settlement will adversely affect its Michigan Crude Pipeline results of operations. Environmental Matters General. Our processing and fractionation plants, pipelines, and associated facilities are subject to multiple environmental obligations and potential liabilities under a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations. These include, without limitation: the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Clean Air Act; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or the Clean Water Act; the Oil Pollution Act; and analogous state and local laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals, with respect to air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, and solid and hazardous waste management. Failure to comply with these requirements may expose us to fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could influence our results of operations. If an accidental leak, spill or release of hazardous substances occurs at any facilities that we own, operate or otherwise use, or where we send materials for treatment or disposal, we could be held jointly and severally liable for all resulting liabilities, including investigation, remedial and clean-up costs. Likewise, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including groundwater contamination. We could also be required to perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination for properties owned, leased or acquired by us which may have been previously operated by third 13 parties that may have released or disposed of hazardous substances or wastes. Any or all of this could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. We believe that our operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and that the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot ensure, however, that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. The clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to affect the environment, and thus there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental-regulation compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Ongoing Remediation and Indemnification from a Third Party. The previous owner/operator of our Boldman and Cobb facilities has been, or is currently involved in, investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying these facilities. These arise out of a September 1994 “Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions” with EPA Regions II, III, IV, and V; and an “Agreed Order” entered into with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet in October 1994. The previous owner/operator has accepted sole liability and responsibility for, and indemnifies MarkWest Hydrocarbon against, any environmental liabilities associated with the EPA Administrative Order, the Kentucky Agreed Order or any other environmental condition related to the real property prior to the effective dates of MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s lease or purchase of the real property. In addition, the previous owner/operator has agreed to perform all the required response actions at its expense in a manner that minimizes interference with MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s use of the properties. On May 24, 2002, MarkWest Hydrocarbon assigned to us the benefit of this indemnity from the previous owner/operator. To date, the previous owner/operator has been performing all actions required under these agreements and, accordingly, we do not believe that the remediation obligation of these properties will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Pipeline Safety Regulations Our pipelines are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) under the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992, as amended (“Pipeline Safety Act”), and the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (“HLPSA”), as amended; and the Pipeline Integrity Management (“PIM”) in High Consequence Areas (Gas Transmission Pipelines) amendment to 49 CFR Part 192, effective February 14, 2004, relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. The Pipeline Safety Act requires the Research and Special Programs Administration of the DOT to consider environmental impacts, as well as its traditional public safety mandate, when developing pipeline safety regulations. The DOT’s pipeline operator qualification rules require minimum qualification requirements for personnel performing operations and maintenance activities on hazardous liquid pipelines. HLPSA covers crude oil, carbon dioxide, NGL and petroleum products pipelines and requires any entity which owns or operates pipeline facilities to comply with the regulations under HLPSA, to permit access to and allow copying of records and to make certain reports and provide information as required by the Secretary of Transportation. The Pipeline Integrity Management in High Consequence Areas (Gas Transmission Pipelines) amendment to 49 CFR Part 192 (PIM) requires operators of gas transmission pipelines to ensure the integrity of their pipelines through hydrostatic pressure testing, the use of in-line inspection tools or through risk-based direct assessment techniques. While we believe that our pipeline operations are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements, due to the possibility of new or amended laws and regulations, or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that future compliance with the requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial positions. On November 8, 2004, a leak and release of vapors occurred in a pipeline transporting NGLs from the Partnership’s Maytown gas processing plant to the Partnership’s Siloam fractionator. This pipeline is owned by a third party, and leased and operated by the Partnership’s subsidiary, MarkWest Energy Appalachia, LLC. A subsequent ignition and fire from the leaked vapors resulted in property damage to five homes and injuries to some of the residents. Pursuant to a Corrective Action Order issued by the federal Office of Pipeline Safety (“OPS”) on November 18, 2004 and amended November 24, 2004, OPS required pipeline and valve integrity evaluation, testing and repair efforts, which MarkWest successfully completed on the affected pipeline segment. Based on, among other things, the successful integrity testing of the affected pipeline, OPS authorized a partial return to service of the affected pipeline in October 2005. Our partial return to service has allowed us to transport substantially all of the volumes through the pipeline that were being transported prior to the incident. We believe we should be able to satisfy relevant requirements to return to full service and are working with OPS. We anticipate filing a request with OPS in the near future to return to full service. 14 Employee Safety The workplaces associated with the processing and storage facilities and the pipelines we operate are also subject to oversight from the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, (“OSHA”), as well as comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard-communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in operations, and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities, and citizens. We believe that we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record-keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. In general, we expect industry and regulatory safety standards to become stricter over time, resulting in increased compliance expenditures. While these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, we do not expect such expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Employees We do not have any employees. Our general partner, or its affiliates, employs approximately 235 individuals to operate our facilities and provide general and administrative services, as our agents. The Paper, Allied Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union Local 5-372 represents 15 employees at our Siloam fractionation facility in South Shore, Kentucky. The collective bargaining agreement with this union was renewed on July 11, 2005, for a term of three years. The agreement covers only hourly, non-supervisory employees. We consider labor relations to be satisfactory at this time. Available Information Our principal executive office is located at 155 Inverness Drive West, Suite 200, Englewood, Colorado, 80112-5000. Our telephone number is 303-290-8700. Our common units trade on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “MWE.” You can find more information about us at our Internet website, www.markwest.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities & Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating MarkWest Energy Partners. Risks Inherent in Our Business If we are unable to successfully integrate our recent or future acquisitions, our future financial performance may suffer. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to integrate our recent acquisitions, as well as our ability to acquire additional assets and businesses at competitive prices. We recently completed the Starfish and Javelina acquisitions, which geographically expanded our operations into offshore and onshore Gulf of Mexico operations. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate these, or any other, acquisitions into our existing operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability and anticipated results from such acquisitions. Failure to achieve such planned results could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The integration of acquisitions with our existing business involves numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional midstream operations into our existing operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area; • the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other existing business concerns; 15 • the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and • consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities subject to the same stringent environmental laws and regulations relating to releases of pollutants into the environment and environmental protection as our existing plants, pipelines and facilities. If so, our operation of these new assets could cause us to incur increased costs to attain or maintain compliance with such requirements. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Our acquisition strategy is based in part on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of assets within the midstream petroleum and natural gas industry. A material decrease in such divestitures could limit our opportunities for future acquisitions, and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and processing and treating facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that natural gas supplies will not be available upon completion of the facilities. One of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering systems and construction of new gathering, processing and treating facilities. The construction of gathering, processing and treating facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Furthermore, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations. Subject to the restrictions governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations, and the indenture governing our outstanding notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing debt; • impair our ability to obtain additional financings in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate and other purposes; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, distributions and other general partnership requirements; 16 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. Furthermore, these consequences could limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our existing credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. We may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of any of these covenants or our failure to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under the terms of our credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, or proceed against the collateral. A significant decrease in natural gas and refinery off-gas supplies in our areas of operation, due to a decline in production from existing wells, refinery operations, depressed commodity prices, reduced drilling activities or other factors, could adversely affect our revenues and operating income and cash flow. Our profitability depends on the volume of natural gas we gather, transmit and process, and NGLs we transport and fractionate at our facilities. A decrease in natural gas or refinery off-gas supplies in our areas of operation would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to our pipelines and facilities for gathering, transporting and processing, and NGLs delivered to our pipelines and facilities for fractionation, storage, transportation and sale. This would reduce our revenue and operating income. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates, and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well declines. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things: prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation, and the availability and cost of capital. Failure to connect new wells to our gathering systems would, therefore, result in a reduction of the amount of natural gas we gather, transmit and process, and the amount of NGLs we transport and fractionate. Over time, as the current wells exhaust, this could cause us to abandon our gathering systems and, possibly, cease gathering operations. As a consequence of such declines, our revenues would drop. We depend on third parties for the natural gas and refinery off-gas we process, and the NGLs we fractionate at our facilities, and a reduction in these quantities could reduce our revenues and cash flow. Although we obtain our supply of natural gas, refinery off-gas and NGLs from numerous third-party producers, a significant portion comes from a limited number of key producers/suppliers who are committed to us under processing contracts. According to these contracts or other supply arrangements, however, the producers are under no obligation to deliver a specific quantity of natural gas or NGLs to our facilities. If these key suppliers, or a significant number of other producers, were to decrease the supply of natural gas or NGLs to our systems and facilities for any reason, we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. Because our operating costs are primarily fixed, a reduction in the volumes of natural gas or NGLs delivered to us would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of similar magnitude. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our gas processing, transportation, fractionation and storage agreements with MarkWest Hydrocarbon, and its failure to satisfy its payment or other obligations under these agreements could reduce our revenues and cash flow. MarkWest Hydrocarbon accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating margin. These revenues and margins are generated by the volumes of natural gas contractually committed to MarkWest Hydrocarbon by the Appalachian producers described above, as well as the fees generated from processing, transportation, fractionation and storage services provided to MarkWest Hydrocarbon. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues and net operating margin from the services we provide under our contracts with MarkWest Hydrocarbon for the foreseeable future. Any default or nonperformance by MarkWest Hydrocarbon could significantly reduce our revenues and cash flows. Thus, any factor or event adversely affecting MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s business, creditworthiness or its ability to perform under its contracts with us, or its other contracts related to our business, could also adversely affect us. The fees charged to third parties under our gathering, processing, transmission, transportation, fractionation and 17 storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs. The agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees we charge to third parties. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either natural gas, NGLs or crude oil are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to): revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of equipment or facilities of the Partnership or third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our financial results would suffer. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could reduce our revenues and cash flow. We are diligent in attempting to ensure that we issue credit to only credit-worthy customers. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, however, we may experience losses in dealing with operators and other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could reduce our revenues and cash flow. We may not be able to retain existing customers, or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines, fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the markets we serve. Our competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, and greater access to natural gas and NGL supplies than we do. Additionally, our customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to us may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using our services. Certain of our competitors may also have advantages in competing for acquisitions, or other new business opportunities, because of their financial resources and synergies in operations. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end-users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long-term purchase contracts. Many end-users purchase natural gas from more than one natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end-users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end-user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect our profitability. For more information regarding our competition, please see “ Industry Overview, Competition” in Item 1 of Part I of this report. Our profitability is affected by the volatility of NGL product and natural gas prices. Changes in the prices of NGL products have historically correlated closely with changes in the price of crude oil. Crude oil, NGL products and natural gas prices have been volatile in recent years in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for NGL products and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: • the level of domestic oil, natural gas and NGL production; • demand for natural gas and NGL products in localized markets; • imports of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs; • seasonality; • the condition of the U.S. economy; 18 • political conditions in other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries; and • domestic government regulation, legislation and policies. Our net operating margins under many of our various types of commodity-based contracts are directly affected by changes in NGL product prices and natural gas prices, thus are more sensitive to volatility in commodity prices than our fee-based contracts. Additionally, our purchase and resale of gas in the ordinary course of business exposes us to significant risk of volatility in gas prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales, and the existence of a difference in the gas price associated with each transaction. Finally, changes in natural gas prices may indirectly affect our profitability, since prices can influence drilling activity and well operations and, thus, the volume of gas we gather and process. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Our commodity derivative activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. We account for derivative instruments in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure to the unhedged portion. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. We have found material weaknesses in our internal controls that require remediation and concluded, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that our internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2005, were not effective. As we discuss in our Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” of this Form 10-K, we have discovered deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In particular, we identified, and Deloitte & Touche’s audit report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 confirmed the presence of, the following material weaknesses: • Ineffective control environment; and • Risk management and accounting for derivative financial instruments. 19 We are fully committed to remediating the material weaknesses described above, and we believe that we are taking the steps that will properly address these issues. Further, our Audit Committee has been and expects to remain actively involved in the remediation planning and implementation. However, the remediation of the design of the deficient controls and the associated testing efforts are not complete, and further remediation may be required. While we are taking immediate steps and dedicating substantial resources to correct these material weaknesses, they will not be considered remediated until the new and improved internal controls operate for a period of time, are tested and are found to be operating effectively. Pending the successful completion of such testing and the hiring of additional personnel, we will perform mitigating procedures. If we fail to remediate any material weaknesses, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. Our industry is subject to numerous operating hazards and risks incidental to processing, transporting, fractionating and storing natural gas and NGLs, and to transporting and storing crude oil. These include: • damage to pipelines, plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods and other natural disasters; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leakage of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • fires and explosions; and • other hazards, including those associated with high-sulfur content, or sour gas, that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. As a result, we may be a defendant in various legal proceedings and litigation arising from our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Market conditions could cause certain insurance premiums and deductibles to become unavailable, or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers now require broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Transportation on certain of our pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and/or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our profitability. Some of our gas, liquids and crude oil transmission operations are subject to rate and service regulations under FERC or various state regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas and oil in interstate commerce, and FERC’s regulatory authority includes: facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. Intrastate natural gas pipeline operations are generally not subject to regulation by FERC, and the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”) specifically exempts some gathering systems. Yet such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please see Item 1, Regulatory Matters. We are indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which our facilities are located and our results of operation and our ability to make payments of principal and interest on the notes could be adversely affected if the indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligation. Columbia Gas is the previous or current owner of the property on which our Kenova, Boldman, Cobb and Kermit facilities are located and is the previous operator of our Boldman and Cobb facilities. Columbia Gas has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying the Boldman and Cobb facilities pursuant to an “Administrative Order by Consent for Removal Actions” entered into by Columbia Gas and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and, in the case of the Boldman facility, an “Agreed Order” with the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet. 20 Columbia Gas has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased from Columbia Gas. At the closing of our initial public offering, MarkWest Hydrocarbon assigned us the benefit of its indemnity from Columbia Gas with respect to the Cobb, Boldman and Kermit facilities. While we are not a party to the agreement under which Columbia Gas agreed to indemnify MarkWest Hydrocarbon with respect to the Kenova facility, MarkWest Hydrocarbon has agreed to provide to us the benefit of its indemnity, as well as any other third party environmental indemnity of which it is a beneficiary. MarkWest Hydrocarbon has also agreed to provide us an additional environmental indemnity pursuant to the terms of the Omnibus Agreement. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if in the future either Columbia Gas or MarkWest Hydrocarbon fails to perform under the indemnification provisions of which we are the beneficiary. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters, and the violation of, or the cost of compliance with, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our profitability. Numerous governmental agencies enforce complex and stringent laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, safety and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution-control requirements or liabilities resulting from non-compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. New environmental laws and regulations might adversely influence our products and activities. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations. These could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property and persons. Our failure to comply with environmental or safety-related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please see Item 1, Regulatory Matters, Environmental Matters, and Pipeline Safety Regulations. The amount of gas we process, gather and transmit, or the crude oil we gather and transport, may be reduced if the pipelines to which we deliver the natural gas or crude oil cannot, or will not, accept the gas or crude oil. All of the natural gas we process, gather and transmit is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users. If these pipelines cannot, or will not, accept delivery of the gas due to downstream constraints on the pipeline, we will be forced to limit or stop the flow of gas through our pipelines and processing systems. In addition, interruption of pipeline service upstream of our processing facilities would likewise limit or stop flow through our processing facilities. Likewise, if the pipelines into which we deliver crude oil are interrupted, we will be limited in, or prevented from conducting, our crude oil transportation operations. Any number of factors beyond our control could cause such interruptions or constraints on pipeline service, including necessary and scheduled maintenance, or unexpected damage to the pipeline. Because our revenues and net operating margins depend upon (1) the volumes of natural gas we process, gather and transmit, (2) the throughput of NGLs through our transportation, fractionation and storage facilities and (3) the volume of crude oil we gather and transport, any reduction of volumes could result in a material reduction in our net operating margin. Our business would be adversely affected if operations at any of our facilities were interrupted. Our operations depend upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, and various means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or our inability to transmit natural gas or NGLs, or transport crude oil to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, would adversely affect our results of operations. Operations at our facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within our control, such as: • unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events at our physical plants; • labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; and • a disruption in the supply of crude oil to our crude oil pipeline, natural gas to our processing plants or gathering pipelines, or a disruption in the supply of NGLs to our transportation pipeline and fractionation facility. 21 Due to our lack of asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our gathering, processing, transportation, transmission, fractionation and storage businesses. An adverse development in one of these businesses would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity, and competitive costs and could adversely affect our profitability. Our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. This shortage of trained workers is the result of the previous generation’s experienced workers reaching the age for retirement, combined with the difficulty of attracting new laborers to the midstream energy industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our profitability. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure Cost reimbursements and fees due our general partner may be substantial and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our general partner for all expenses it incurs on our behalf. Our general partner has sole discretion in determining the amount of these expenses. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees. MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of the unitholders MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates own and control our general partner. MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates also own a significant limited partner interest in us. A number of officers and employees of MarkWest Hydrocarbon and our general partner also own interests in the Partnership. Conflicts of interest may arise between MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates, including our general partner and the Partnership. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests, and the interests of its affiliates, over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: Conflicts Relating to Control: • Employees of MarkWest Hydrocarbon who provide services to us also devote significant time to the businesses of MarkWest Hydrocarbon and are compensated by MarkWest Hydrocarbon for these services. • Neither our Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires MarkWest Hydrocarbon to pursue a future business strategy that favors the Partnership or utilizes the Partnership’s assets for processing, transportation or fractionation services we provide. MarkWest Hydrocarbon’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of MarkWest Hydrocarbon. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of other parties, such as MarkWest Hydrocarbon, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. • Our general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. 22 • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to the Partnership by our general partner and its affiliates, including the processing, transportation and fractionation agreements with MarkWest Hydrocarbon. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for the Partnership. • In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units or to make incentive distributions or to hasten the conversion of subordinated units. • Our Partnership Agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. Our general partner may establish reserves for distribution on the subordinated units, but only if those reserves will not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. Conflicts Relating to Costs: • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. • Our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Unitholders have less ability to elect or remove management than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates choose the board of directors of our general partner. The directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its members, MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. First, our general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period, and units held by MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units, and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal under these circumstances would adversely affect the common unitholders by prematurely eliminating their contractual right to distributions over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence, or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with its performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. Unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the Partnership Agreement provision. It states that any units held by a person who owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their 23 transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. These provisions may discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management. As a result of these provisions, the price at which the common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party, and that party could replace our current management team, in each case without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger, or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets, without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the Partnership Agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner from transferring their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices, and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that, in its reasonable discretion, are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that reduce the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner. Our Partnership Agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders. The Partnership Agreement also restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that would otherwise constitute breaches of our general partner’s fiduciary duties. If you hold common units, you will be treated as having consented to the various actions contemplated in the Partnership Agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be considered a breach of fiduciary duties under applicable state law. We do not have any employees and rely solely on employees of MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates who serve as our agents. MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest. If these separate activities are significantly greater than our activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the employees who provide services to our general partner. If the employees of MarkWest Hydrocarbon and its affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. During the subordination period, our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may cause the Partnership to issue up to 1,207,500 additional common units. Our general partner, without unitholder approval, may also cause the Partnership to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, in several circumstances. These include: • the issuance of common units in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that increase cash flow from operations per unit on a pro forma basis; • the conversion of subordinated units into common units; • the conversion of units of equal rank with the common units into common units under some circumstances; 24 • the conversion of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal of our general partner; • issuances of common units under our long-term incentive plan; or • issuances of common units to repay indebtedness, the cost of servicing which is greater than the distribution obligations associated with the units issued in connection with the debt’s retirement. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in the Partnership will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. After the end of the subordination period, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time more than 80% of the outstanding common units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to the Partnership, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement, or to take other action under our Partnership Agreement was considered participation in the “control” of our business. Our general partner usually has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the Partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 