D. RISK FACTORS If the events discussed in these Risk Factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the market price of our common shares could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones that may exist. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. 9 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We devote substantial resources to research and development. The research and development process is expensive and prolonged, and it entails considerable risk. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between eight and fifteen years or more for a pharmaceutical product and between three and seven years or more for a medical device. Each of these periods varies considerably depending on the product and the country where registration is sought. Because of the risk associated with our research and development, products we are currently developing may not obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully or they may take longer than we expect to gain necessary governmental, regulatory or other approval. They may cost more to develop and may be less successful than we currently anticipate, or than other therapies that are presently or soon may be on the market. We can make no assurances that any of the projects currently in our development pipeline will result in commercially successful products. If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade physicians to adopt new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products and our sales and profits may decline. The pharmaceutical, medical device and over-the-counter industries are characterized by continual product development, constant innovation in products and techniques, frequent new product introductions and price competition. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products which are more effective in treating diseases and disorders of the eye or that incorporate the latest technologies. In addition, we must be able to manufacture new products and effectively persuade a sufficient number of eye care professionals and/or consumers to use the new products we introduce. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new competing product is introduced by one of our competitors or if we announce a new product that, in either case, represents a substantial improvement over our existing products. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our major products are covered by patents that give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. As a result, our sales and profits could decline significantly due to increased competition. In addition, we may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire. For instance, our successful combination ocular anti-infective/anti-inflammatory product, TobraDex® ophthalmic suspension and ointment, lost its exclusive marketing position in the United States in January 2009. Both a competitor and our Falcon Pharmaceuticals subsidiary launched generic versions of TobraDex® suspension in early January 2009. We depend on proprietary technologies and may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. We currently hold approximately 7,000 patents and have more than 4,000 pending patent applications. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrecy laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. From time to time, we have faced challenges of our intellectual property rights and face current challenges to some of our key products. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that any pending patent application held by us will result in an issued patent or that, if patents are issued to us, such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not be successful. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of patents in our industry frequently involve complex legal issues that are not easily resolved. 10 The Company, either alone or jointly with its commercial partners, has filed fourteen North American patent infringement actions against six different generic drug companies. With the exception of international generic challenges, all of these generic drug companies are seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") approval to market generic versions of the Company's products, under what are known as Abbreviated New Drug Applications ("ANDAs"). Each infringement action was filed after the Company received notice that one or more of the generic drug companies had filed an ANDA seeking approval to sell a generic version of a Company product. As part of its ANDA, each generic drug company challenged one or more patents covering a Company product. Our products subject to generic challenges include Vigamox® antibiotic ophthalmic solution, Patanol® and Pataday™ anti-allergy ophthalmic solutions, and TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z® ophthalmic solutions. In the United States, as a result of filing the lawsuits, the FDA must delay approval of the related ANDAs for 30 months unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. In Canada, filing of the lawsuits secured a 24-month delay in approval from the Minister of Health, which can be shortened if the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 24-month stay on such approval. Should any generic drug company succeed in overcoming all applicable patents and secure regulatory approval, it would be entitled to sell a generic product that would compete with the Company's product in the United States or Canada. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. More information on these suits can be found at Item 8.A.7, "Legal Proceedings." On December 18, 2008, James M. Nielsen, M.D. filed a patent infringement suit against Alcon, Inc. and Alcon Laboratories, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas in Dallas. Dr. Nielsen is asserting that his U.S. Patent No. 5,158,572 entitled "Multifocal Intraocular Lens" is being infringed by the Company's AcrySof® ReSTOR® intraocular lens. The patent, which expired at the end of October 2009, was previously licensed to Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. The Company filed its Answer January 12, 2009. The Answer included a counterclaim for a declaratory judgment that the patent-in-suit is invalid and not infringed. The case had been set for trial in August 2010 but has been postponed. No new trial date has been set. Summary judgment motions were filed by both parties January 7, 2011. Alcon is seeking summary judgment on noninfringement, invalidity and laches, while Dr. Nielsen is seeking partial summary judgment on invalidity and laches/estoppels. On January 10, 2011, the court ordered that both parties' motions be stricken and refiled in a "cross-motion" format, the briefing for which was extended by the court until the end of March 2011. An adverse ruling by the court, while possible, would not be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. On January 22, 2009, Elan Pharma International Ltd. sued two of the Company's subsidiaries, Alcon Laboratories, Inc. and Alcon Research, Ltd., in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in Sherman, alleging infringement of two Elan patents on nanoparticle technology (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,298,262 and 5,429,842). The complaint claims that the Company's Azopt® product and, potentially, other products infringe the two patents. The Company answered and counterclaimed on May 12, 2009. Elan then moved to dismiss certain of the Company's affirmative defenses and counterclaims. The Company has filed an amended answer and counterclaims providing greater detail with respect to the Company's inequitable conduct counterclaims. The case has been set for trial on October 17, 2011. The Company believes that it has strong defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously. An adverse ruling by the court, however, could impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a variety of other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of business, including proceedings relating to product liability and patent infringement. The Company believes that it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending the litigation pending against it. While the results of the aforementioned contingencies cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. Litigation contingencies are subject to change based on settlements and court decisions. The Company may be subject to future litigation and infringement claims, which could cause the Company to incur significant expenses or prevent the Company from selling its products. The Company operates in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. Product liability claims may be asserted against the Company in the future arising out of events not known to the Company at the present time. 11 Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our sales and profits; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming even if it is possible to do so. A portion of our sales comes from elective surgical procedures or elections to utilize advanced technology options in surgery. Economic conditions and price competition may cause sales of our products used in these types of elective surgical procedures to decline and reduce our profitability. Sales of products used in elective surgical procedures have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Generally, the costs of elective surgical procedures are borne by individuals with limited reimbursement from their medical insurance providers or government programs. Accordingly, individuals may be less willing to incur the costs of these procedures in weak or uncertain economic conditions, there may be a decline in the number of these procedures, there may be a decline in the amount we realize for each procedure and the market for equipment used in such procedure may be negatively impacted. Inability of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement or maintain the current level of reimbursement from third-party payors could limit market acceptance of our products or reduce the prices we receive for our products, which could impact adversely our sales and profits. The initiatives of managed care organizations and governments to contain healthcare costs in the United States and in other countries are placing an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. This emphasis has, and in the future could, adversely affect sales and prices of our products. Patients, consumers, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers may be reluctant to purchase our products if they do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our pharmaceutical and surgical products and for procedures performed using our products from both governmental and private third-party payors. For example: · Major third-party payors for hospital services, including government insurance plans, Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, resulting in stricter standards for and lower levels of reimbursement of hospital and outpatient charges for some medical procedures. · Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending could lower our effective average selling price. In the United States, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") impose controls on the prices at which medical devices and physician-administered drugs used in ophthalmic surgery are reimbursed for Medicare patients. Many private third-party payors use CMS guidelines in determining reimbursement levels. In addition, recent government initiatives, such as the U.S. Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit and the Affordable Care Act, or future government initiatives may negatively impact the number of units we sell or the price we realize for our pharmaceutical products. · Most European Union ("EU") member states impose controls on whether products are reimbursable by national or regional health service providers and on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under state-run healthcare schemes. Some member states operate reference pricing systems in which they set national reimbursement prices by reference to those in other member states. Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending and increased transparency of prices, following the adoption of the European euro, have meant that an increasing number of governments have adopted this approach. Ever-tighter budgetary constraints also mean that many jurisdictions are increasingly focusing on health economics-based assessment to determine whether technologies represent an appropriate use of national healthcare budgets. The major EU economies, such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom, have led the way with the development of sophisticated systems, but in almost every European country there is likely to be some form of health technology assessment before the government issues guidance or grants reimbursement or procurement approval for an expensive new technology. Furthermore, with increased price transparency, parallel importation of pharmaceuticals from lower price level countries to higher priced markets has grown, and these parallel imports lower our effective average selling price. 12 · Japan also imposes controls on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under the national healthcare schemes. Due to increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending, the Japanese government continues to seek cuts where possible, and is actively promoting the use of generic products. · Managed care organizations in the United States restrict the pharmaceutical products that doctors in those organizations can prescribe through the use of formularies, the lists of drugs that physicians are permitted to prescribe to patients in a managed care organization. Exclusion of our pharmaceutical products from these formularies or additional price concessions necessary to be included on formularies could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profits. · Competitors may introduce generic products that compete directly or indirectly with our products and such generic products may have preferential positions on formularies or reduce our unit sales and prices. · There are proposed and existing laws and regulations governing product prices that may negatively affect the profitability of companies in the healthcare industry. · There have been recent initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products, which could affect our profitability. · Reductions in the prices for our products in response to these trends could reduce our profits. Moreover, our products may not be covered in the future by third-party payors. The failure of our products to be so covered could cause our profits to decline. · In March 2010, the United States government enacted the Affordable Care Act legislation that is expected to have far reaching implications for the healthcare industry. This legislation will increase rebates pharmaceutical manufacturers must pay to the Medicaid program, impose new discount obligations on pharmaceutical manufacturers with respect to Medicare Part D, potentially affect reimbursement for pharmaceutical and medical device products through a greater emphasis on comparative effectiveness, impose an annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers and an excise tax on medical device products, impose additional reporting requirements surrounding interactions with healthcare providers, and affect the manner in which insurers provide medical coverage. We expect that these changes will reduce the reimbursement for our products and negatively impact selling prices, increase rebates and fees that we provide to the federal and various state governments, increase the cost of our insurance plans and increase administrative costs associated with compliance activities. "Overview of Our Business – U.S. Healthcare Reform" in Item 5 provides more discussion of these changes. The FDA and other regulators may authorize sales of competitive prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which could reduce the demand for and profitability of our prescription products. In October 2006 and at the request of the holder of both the patent and the New Drug Application ("NDA"), the FDA revised the status of the allergy drug Zaditor® (Novartis AG) from "prescription only" to "over-the-counter," or "OTC." The approval by the FDA of the sale of this and other pharmaceutical products without a prescription may reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. Medicines regulators in other jurisdictions have similar powers to authorize OTC switches, either on their own initiative or in response to an approval-holder's request. Managed care organizations or other third-party payors may petition the FDA or other medicines regulators to permit sales of some of our pharmaceutical products on a non-prescription basis, which could reduce our profits. Changes in inventory levels or fluctuations in buying patterns by our large wholesale and large retail customers may adversely affect our sales and earnings and add to their variability from quarter to quarter. We also face additional risks due to the concentration of certain sales with large retail and wholesale customers. A significant portion of our pharmaceutical and eye care products are sold to major pharmaceutical and healthcare distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, our sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, large retailers' and wholesalers' buying decisions or other 13 factors. We can provide no assurance that large retail and wholesale purchases will not decrease as a result of fluctuations in buying patterns. Additionally, we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk to these customers that, if affected by financial difficulty, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries. We have more than 75 local operations worldwide and more than half of our revenues in 2010 came from customers outside the United States. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In 2010, our most significant currency exposures were to the euro, the Japanese yen, the Brazilian real and the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates between these and other foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. In addition, we are exposed to transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies have had in the past, and may have in the future, a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including lower profit margins, less stringent protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in countries in which we operate, especially in emerging markets. These and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. For example, many emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially. If currencies devalue and we cannot offset with price increases, our products may become less profitable. Inflation in emerging markets also can make our products less profitable and increase our exposure to credit risks. We have experienced currency fluctuations, social and political conditions, inflation and volatile economic conditions, which have impacted our profitability in the past in several markets and we may experience such impacts in the future. The current economic and financial crisis appears to be affecting many of the markets in which we operate. As a result, there is a risk that consumers may reduce their expenditures on prescription drugs, over-the-counter healthcare products and other healthcare spending to help cope with hard economic times. In addition, governments may come under increasing pressure to reduce healthcare expenditures as a result of lower revenue and increased demand for other government services during this financial crisis. Both of these items could have a negative impact on our sales and profits. We have significant outstanding receivable balances that are dependent upon either direct or indirect payment by various governmental entities across the world. The ultimate payment of these receivables is dependent on the ability of these governments to maintain liquidity primarily through borrowing capacity, particularly in the European Union. If certain governments are not able to maintain access to liquidity through borrowing capacity, the ultimate payment of their respective portion of outstanding receivables could be at risk and impact profits and cash flow. We single-source many of the active ingredients and components used in our products and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. We single-source active ingredients contained in a majority of our pharmaceutical and consumer eye care products, including ProVisc®, DisCoVisc® and VISCOAT® surgical viscoelastic devices, both Systane® and Systane® Ultra lubricant eye drops, both PatanolÒ and Pataday™ ophthalmic solutions and Vigamox® moxifloxacin ophthalmic solution. In these cases, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, including from the FDA, to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy process. In many cases, we use single-source suppliers for other components and raw materials used in our products. The loss of any of these or other significant suppliers or the inability of any such supplier to meet performance and quality specifications, requested quantities or delivery schedules could cause our sales and profitability to decline and have a negative impact on our customer relations. In addition, a significant price increase from any of our single-source suppliers could cause our profitability to decline if we cannot increase our 14 prices to our customers. In order to ensure sufficient supply, we may determine that we need to provide financing to some of our single-source suppliers, which could increase our financial exposure to such suppliers. In many cases, we manufacture a product at a single-source facility, and an inability to produce a sufficient quantity of, or any disruption in the manufacturing of, a product at the relevant facility could impair our ability to fill customer orders and could reduce our sales. In some cases, we manufacture a product, including some of our key products, at a single manufacturing facility. In many cases, regulatory approvals of our products are limited to a specific approved manufacturing facility. If we fail to produce enough of a product at a facility, or if our manufacturing process at that facility is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver that product to our customers on a timely basis. A failure to deliver products on a timely basis could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Significant delays in the delivery of our products or a delay in the delivery of a key product also could negatively impact our sales and profitability. Some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties under contract. Business conditions and regulatory actions may lead to recalls of products assembled or manufactured by these companies, may result in delays in shipments of such products or may cause these contractors to abandon their contract manufacturing agreements. Any of these occurrences could have a negative impact on sales and profitability. Unauthorized or illegal importation of products from countries with lower prescription drug and medical device prices to countries with higher prescription drug and medical device prices may result in lowering the prices we receive for our products. In the United States and elsewhere, our products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government imposed price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of regulatory harmonization and common market or trade initiatives, such as those underpinning the European Union, and the internet. Despite government regulations in some countries aimed at limiting low priced imports, the volume of imports may continue to rise due to the limited enforcement resources, as well as political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In addition, legislative proposals are being considered in the United States at both the federal and state levels to relax U.S. import laws. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States and elsewhere. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there are further changes to the law or if state or local governments take further steps to import products from abroad. We are subject to extensive government regulation related to (i) the review and market approval of drugs and medical devices, (ii) ongoing compliance and reporting obligations for products with post-approval review and (iii) ongoing pricing and reimbursement reviews for drugs and devices. These government regulations require internal processes that increase our costs to secure and maintain market registration of our drug and device products. Government regulation also could prevent us from selling our products. The research, development, testing, manufacturing, sale and marketing of our products are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, marketing, promotion, record keeping, reporting, the sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products, import, export, samples and electronic records and electronic signatures. We are also subject to government regulation with respect to the prices we charge and the rebates we offer or pay to customers, including rebates paid to certain governmental entities. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. In the United States, we must obtain FDA approval for each pharmaceutical product that we market and FDA approval or clearance for each medical device that we market, and additional approvals or clearances may be required for product changes. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed outside the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. Our potential products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval or may never gain approval. If a regulatory authority delays approval of a potentially significant 15 product, our market value and operating results may decline. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our products, we will not be able to market these products, which would result in a decrease in our sales. Currently, we are actively pursuing approval for a number of our products from regulatory authorities and conducting other pre-market procedures in a number of countries, including, among others, the United States, countries in the European Union and Japan. Continued growth in our sales and profits will depend, in part, on the timely and successful introduction and marketing of some or all of these products. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, clinical trials, yet we cannot be certain that the trials will result in the commercial sale of a product. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials show promising results. Any of our products may produce undesirable side effects that could cause us, regulatory authorities or research sites to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a pharmaceutical or medical device candidate. We, the FDA or another regulatory authority, an Institutional Review Board or a Safety Data Monitoring Committee charged with overseeing the research to protect study subjects may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. Noncompliance with applicable legal regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The FDA and other regulatory bodies across the world also have authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. We may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with post-approval legal and regulatory requirements and our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory and law enforcement authorities, including, in the United States, the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, the CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services and state and local governments. Any product for which we currently have or may obtain marketing approval, or clearance, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data that we might be required to collect, any adverse events and malfunctions associated with the products, and any advertising and promotional activities for the product, are subject to continual recordkeeping and reporting requirements, review and periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. Our advertising and promotional activities are subject to stringent regulatory rules and oversight. In the past, we have had to change or discontinue promotional materials because of regulatory agency requests, and we are exposed to that possibility in the future and also to the possibility of new civil monetary penalties that have been established for violative promotion of drug products to consumers. New requirements and industry guidelines have been adopted to require the posting of ongoing drug and device clinical trials on public registries, and the disclosure of designated clinical trial results. We must continually review adverse event and other available safety information that we receive concerning our products and make expedited and periodic reports to regulatory authorities. In any given situation, we may consider whether to implement a voluntary product recall. We might be required to report to the FDA certain drug and medical device recalls, device malfunctions or product defects and failures to meet federal electronic product standards. In the United States, any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations. In addition, certain of our products must comply with child-resistant packaging requirements under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act and Consumer Product Safety Commission regulations. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs also must comply with rules governing the promotion of medicines and devices, anti-bribery rules and related laws, such as the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the False Claims Act, as 16 amended, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as amended, and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, as amended. The statutes and regulations governing the various price reporting requirements are complex and have changed over time, and the U.S. government has not given clear guidance on many issues. In addition, recent statutory and regulatory developments have not yet been applied by the government or courts to specific factual situations. We believe that the Company is in compliance with all applicable government price reporting requirements, but there is the potential that the CMS, other regulatory and law enforcement agencies or a court could arrive at different interpretations, with adverse financial or other consequences for the Company. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Some European Union bodies and most European Union member states and Japan impose controls and restrictions that are similar in nature or effect to those described above. In recent years, several states in the United States, including California, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as prohibiting pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing. Similar legislation is being considered in other states and at the federal level in the United States. Many of these requirements are new and their breadth and application is uncertain, and most apply only to drugs; however, certain legislation (e.g., California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Nevada and Vermont) also applies to devices. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these applicable legal and regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private "qui tam" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be subject to governmental, regulatory and other legal proceedings that have a significant negative effect on our results of operations. We are obligated to comply with the laws of each of the many countries in which we operate, covering a broad range of activities. Despite our efforts, any failure to comply with law could lead to substantial liabilities that may not be covered by insurance, and could affect our business and reputation. As further discussed in Item 8.A.7, "Legal Proceedings," we are subject to various legal proceedings, including legal proceedings relating to Novartis's January 2010 merger proposal. We may also be subject to additional legal proceedings in the future. Such proceedings could relate to, among other things, product liability, commercial disputes, employment and wrongful discharge, antitrust, securities, sales and marketing practices, health and safety, environmental, tax, privacy, intellectual property matters and the proposed merger with Novartis. Such proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and large verdicts sometimes occur. As a consequence, we may in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows, and the price of our common shares may be affected by speculation concerning the potential outcome of legal proceedings. We are subject to governmental oversight and associated civil and criminal enforcement relating to drug and medical device advertising, promotion and marketing, and such enforcement is evolving and intensifying. Other parties, including private plaintiffs, also are commonly bringing suit against pharmaceutical and medical device companies, alleging off-label marketing and other violations. Given the significant risks associated with such enforcement and suits, we have adopted enhanced compliance controls over our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, among other areas. However, there remains substantial risk in this area given evolving enforcement theories and increasing claims brought by governmental and private parties. 17 New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain approvals for our product candidates and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize any approved products. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 ("FDAAA") contains significant regulatory requirements affecting pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. These requirements share some of the broad themes in recently adopted legal requirements for drugs in the European Union. For drugs, the FDAAA grants the FDA extensive new authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies ("REMS"). The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans to healthcare professionals and restrictions on distribution and use. For example, if the FDA makes the necessary findings, it might require that a new product be used only by physicians with certain specialized training, only in certain designated healthcare settings or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also includes requirements for drugs and devices for providing the public with information on ongoing clinical trials through a clinical trial registry and for disclosing clinical trial results to the public through a clinical trial database, renewed requirements for conducting trials to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients, new requirements to pay the FDA a fee in order to obtain advisory review of certain drug consumer television advertisements and new penalties, for example, for false or misleading consumer drug advertisements. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug and device approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. States require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical and medical device products in that state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. New requirements also have been imposed in some states and certain markets outside the United States and proposed in other states, requiring us to provide paper or electronic pedigrees with the drugs that we distribute to help establish their authenticity and to track their movement from the manufacturer through the chain of distribution. These new federal and state requirements and additional requirements that have been proposed, and might be adopted, may make the process more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates. In addition, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval requirements, our ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered and our business may be harmed as a result. We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including surgical equipment and instruments, involve an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. A recall of one of our products or a product manufactured by another manufacturer could impair sales of other similar products we market as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall. A product recall also could lead to a regulatory agency inspection or other regulatory action. From time to time, we are named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, and although we believe we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future, including claims arising out of procedures performed using our surgical equipment. Prior to 2005, we relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential product liability claims. Since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase third party product liability insurance coverage for this risk. The combination of insurance coverage (if any), cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy product liabilities that we may incur in the future. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from 18 securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability. Our manufacturing, research and development practices involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we have operations, governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety and environmental procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Remedial environmental actions or compliance with environmental laws could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations or our financial position. If we were involved in a major environmental accident or found to be in substantial non-compliance with applicable environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines that could be material. Prior to 2005, we relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential environmental liability claims. Since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase insurance coverage for this risk. The combination of insurance coverage (if any), cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy environmental liabilities that we may incur in the future. Any environmental claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful environmental liability claims brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. We do not purchase third-party insurance to cover almost all of our property and casualty, business interruption and liability risks. We continue to purchase insurance from third parties when required by law and for the personal side of directors' and officers' liability insurance. The pharmaceutical and medical device business involves an inherent risk of product liability and any claims of this type could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, we have all the risks of property and casualty, general liability, business interruption and environmental liability exposures that are typical of a public enterprise with manufacturing and marketing activities. Prior to 2005, we relied on a combination of self-insurance through our captive insurance subsidiaries and third-party insurance to cover potential claims from these risks. Since March 31, 2005, we no longer purchase any form of insurance from third parties except for insurance coverage required by law to be purchased from third parties, such as workers' compensation and automobile insurance. Consequently, we are exposed to all self-insured risks. However, we purchase the personal side of directors' and officers' liability insurance from a third party. Although our Company assets, our internally generated cash flows and third-party insurance coverage have been adequate to provide for liability claims in the past, there can be no assurance that future liability claims and other losses from these risks can be covered by our insurance coverage limits for past activities, Company assets and future cash flows. Any significant losses from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. We may not successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions to expand or complement our business. As part of our growth strategy, we evaluate and pursue strategic business acquisitions to expand or complement our business. Such ventures may bring new products, increased market share or new customers to Alcon's prominent position in the ophthalmic industry. We cannot ensure that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified. Acquisition activities can be thwarted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation (including market concentration limitations) and replacement product developments in our industry. Further, after an acquisition, successful integration of the venture can be complicated by corporate cultural differences, difficulties in retention of key personnel, customers and suppliers, and coordination with other products and processes. Also, acquisitions could divert management's attention from our existing business and could result in liabilities being incurred that were not known at the time of acquisition or the creation of tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. 19 We face risks arising from possible union legislation in the United States. There is a possibility that the proposed Employee Free Choice Act may be enacted in the United States. If passed, the Employee Free Choice Act would make it easier for unions to win elections and could result in more labor relations requirements and union activity in our business. This legislation potentially could increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our overall competitive position. The March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan may adversely affect our operations in Japan. On March 11, 2011, a significant portion of Japan suffered damage from a major earthquake and accompanying tsunami. Our office in Tokyo reported that all of our employees there were safe and that damage to the Company's physical assets was not significant to the Company on a consolidated basis. However, damage to the country's energy supplies, infrastructure and distribution channels has been significant and may cause adverse consequences in the future. As a result, we expect that our operations in Japan will be adversely affected in 2011 by factors that may include reduced sales, increased costs and expenses, and disruptions to the operations of our suppliers and business partners. We are unable to determine the extent of the impact of this event on our operations and financial condition in the future with any level of precision at the date of this report. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Novartis We will be controlled by Novartis AG as long as it owns a majority of our common shares, and our other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of a shareholder vote during that time. At December 31, 2010, Novartis AG, a Swiss corporation, owned approximately 77% of our outstanding common shares. Because Novartis's interests may differ from those of our other shareholders, actions Novartis takes with respect to us may be unfavorable to our other shareholders. Minority holders of common shares will not be able to affect the outcome of most shareholder votes so long as Novartis owns at least a majority of our outstanding common shares. So long as it owns at least a majority of our common shares, Novartis will be able to control, among other things, the outcome of shareholder votes relating to the following: the election and removal of all of our directors; amendments to our Articles of Association; payment of dividends; changes to our capital structure; and appointment and removal of our statutory and group auditors. On December 14, 2010, Alcon's board of directors approved a merger agreement with Novartis, whereby Novartis will pay a total merger consideration valued at $168 per share for the Alcon shares it does not currently own, comprised of a combination of Novartis shares (or American Depositary Shares in lieu thereof) and, if necessary, a cash contingent value amount to result in a total value of $168 per share. The merger agreement precludes the payment of dividends by Alcon and contains limitations on our ability to take certain actions without the prior consent of Novartis. Completion is conditional, among other things, on two-thirds approval by the shareholders of Alcon. At December 31, 2010, Novartis owned more than the required two-thirds of the outstanding common shares of Alcon and has agreed, subject to certain conditions, to vote all of its Alcon shares to approve the merger. For further details on the proposed merger, please refer to Item 7.B, "Related Party Transactions" and the Merger Agreement dated December 14, 2010 between Novartis AG and Alcon, Inc., included as Exhibit 4.13 to this report. Additional information concerning the proposed merger is included in the registration statement on Form F-4 filed by Novartis with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on December 23, 2010 and subsequent amendments thereto. Because Novartis controls us, conflicts of interest between Novartis and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Various conflicts of interest between Alcon and Novartis could arise. For example, ownership interests of directors or officers of Alcon in Novartis shares or service as a director or officer of both Alcon and Novartis could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when a director or officer is faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies, such as disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting or our dividend policy. 20 We cannot assure you that all conditions to the merger will be completed and the merger consummated. The merger is subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including the approval of our and Novartis's shareholders, and we cannot assure you that the merger will be completed. In the event the merger is not completed, we may be subject to many risks, including the costs related to the proposed merger, such as legal, accounting, and advisory fees, which must be paid even if the merger is not completed. If the merger is not completed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales or distributions of our common shares by Novartis could depress the market price for our common shares. Novartis may, at any time, sell all or part of our common shares that it owns or it may distribute those common shares to its shareholders. There can be no assurance that any of our other shareholders will be included in any transaction in the event Novartis sells its interest in us to another party or that any of our shareholders will realize a premium with respect to their common shares as a result of such transaction or any other disposition of our common shares by Novartis. In addition, sales or distributions by Novartis of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. Novartis is not subject to any contractual obligation to maintain its respective ownership positions in our shares. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may fluctuate. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, both within and outside our control, such as announcements of innovations and discoveries or new products by us or our competitors, developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals, changes in estimates of our financial performance, changes in recommendations by securities analysts and developments with respect to the proposed merger with Novartis. To the extent that there are sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market in connection with or immediately following exercise by the holders of employee stock options or share-settled stock appreciation rights, the market price of our common shares may decrease significantly. The stock market in general sometimes experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and medical device companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common shares, which could cause a decline in the value of our common shares. You should be aware also that for the size of our company, Alcon has relatively fewer shares that trade on a daily basis than other similar companies in our industry. As a result, price volatility of our shares may be greater when the trading volume of our common shares is low. Risks Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Switzerland and Swiss law governs our internal corporate affairs. We are a corporation incorporated under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Swiss corporate law and by our Articles of Association. In particular, Swiss corporate law limits the ability of a shareholder to challenge resolutions or actions of our board of directors in court. Shareholders generally are not permitted to file a suit to reverse a decision or action by directors but are permitted to seek damages for breaches of fiduciary duty. Shareholder claims against a director for breach of fiduciary duty would, as a matter of Swiss law, have to be brought at our place of incorporation in the Canton of Zug, Switzerland, or at the domicile of the involved director. In addition, under Swiss law, any claims by shareholders against us must be brought exclusively at our place of incorporation. Under Swiss corporate law, we are required to declare dividends in Swiss francs. As a result, any currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc will affect the dollar value of the dividends we pay. 21 In addition, in several instances we follow Swiss corporate governance practices instead of the corporate governance practices applicable to a U.S. company under New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") listing standards, as permitted by the NYSE. A summary of the principal areas of difference is provided under Item 16G, "Corporate Governance." 