D. RISK FACTORS If the events discussed in these Risk Factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the market price of our common shares could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones that may exist. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. 9 Risks Related to Our Relationships with Nestlé and Novartis We will be controlled by Nestlé S.A. or Novartis AG as long as either owns a majority of our common shares, and our other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of a shareholder vote during that time. Nestlé, a Swiss corporation, owns approximately 52% of our outstanding common shares. As more fully discussed in Item 7.B, "Related Party Transactions," Novartis, also a Swiss corporation, announced on January 4, 2010 that it had exercised its option pursuant to the Purchase and Option Agreement to purchase the remaining approximately 156 million Alcon shares owned by Nestlé at a weighted average price of $180 per share in cash. Upon consummation of the purchase, Novartis would own an approximate 77% interest in Alcon. Because Nestlé's or Novartis's interests may differ from those of our other shareholders, actions Nestlé or Novartis takes with respect to us may be unfavorable to our other shareholders. Minority holders of common shares will not be able to affect the outcome of most shareholder votes so long as Nestlé or Novartis owns at least a majority of our outstanding common shares. So long as it owns at least a majority of our common shares, either Nestlé or Novartis will be able to control, among other things, the outcome of shareholder votes relating to the following: the election and removal of all of our directors; amendments to our Articles of Association (other than those subject to a two-thirds majority requirement); payment of dividends; changes to our capital structure unless the chang e is subject to the requirement that it be approved by holders of two-thirds of our common shares represented at a shareholders' meeting; and appointment and removal of our statutory and group auditors. In certain instances, Nestlé's rights as a shareholder are subject to the Shareholders Agreement (defined below) that Nestlé entered into with Novartis. Because Nestlé controls us, conflicts of interest between Nestlé and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Most of our agreements with Nestlé (or Nestlé affiliates), including the Separation Agreement discussed in Item 7.B.2, "Separation Agreement with Nestlé," were finalized while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Nestlé and, as a result, the terms of each may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated between unaffiliated parties. Various conflicts of interest between Alcon and Nestlé could arise. For example, ownership interests of directors or officers of Alcon in Nestlé shares or service as a director or officer of both Alcon and Nestlé could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when a director or officer is faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies, such as disagreement over the desirability of a pote ntial acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting or our dividend policy. Nestlé is in the process of completing the sale of its majority interest to Novartis and the transaction may trigger change of control provisions in the Company's contractual obligations and may affect our business development opportunities. On April 6, 2008, Nestlé and Novartis executed a Purchase and Option Agreement ("Purchase and Option Agreement") pursuant to which Nestlé agreed to sell approximately 74 million of its shares of Alcon common stock to Novartis in a cash transaction at a price of $143.18 per share. This sale was consummated on July 7, 2008, and Novartis now owns a stake in Alcon of slightly less than 25% of Alcon's outstanding shares, while Nestlé remains Alcon's majority shareholder with approximately 156 million Alcon shares comprising approximately 52% of the Company's outstanding shares. On April 6, 2008, Nestlé and Novartis also executed a Shareholders Agreement ("Shareholders Agreement") that provides for the expansion of the Alcon board of directors from eight to ten members upon the completion of the sale, with one of the additional members designated by Nestlé and one designated by Novartis. Alcon's shareholders voted to expand the Alcon board and elected two new directors at Alcon's annual general meeting held on May 6, 2008 in Zug, Switzerland. James Singh, Nestlé's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Nestlé's designee, and Daniel Vasella, M.D., Chairman of Novartis and Novartis's designee, were elected to these two director positions and joined Alcon's board upon the closing of the 74 million share sale transaction on July 7, 2008. 10 The Purchase and Option Agreement between Nestlé and Novartis also contains put and call option rights on the balance of approximately 156 million Alcon shares owned by Nestlé. The option rights commenced on January 1, 2010 and expire on July 31, 2011. As outlined by the two parties, these rights grant (i) Novartis a call option to buy all but 4.1 million (or 2.5%) of Nestlé's remaining Alcon shares at a fixed price of $181 per share and the 4.1 million shares at the first stage price of $143.18 per share, and (ii) Nestlé a put option to sell to Novartis all but 4.1 million of its remaining Alcon shares to Novartis at the lower of Novartis's call price of $181 per share or a 20.5% premium above the then-market price of Alcon shares, which will be calculated as the average market price of Alcon shares during the five trading days immediately preceding the exercise date of the put option, with the 4.1 million share balance to be sold at the first stage closing price of $143.18 per share. For further details on the Shareholders Agreement and the Purchase and Option Agreement, please refer to the following link at the SEC's website: http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1167379/000110465908045488/0001104659-08-045488-index.htm On January 4, 2010, Novartis announced that it had exercised its option to purchase the remaining approximately 156 million Alcon shares owned by Nestlé at a weighted average price of $180 per share in cash, pursuant to the Purchase and Option Agreement. Upon consummation of the purchase, Novartis would own an approximate 77% interest in Alcon. The consummation of a purchase and sale transaction under the option right is subject to regulatory approvals. The consummation would trigger certain change of control provisions in the Company's share-based awards plan (including the vesting of certain outstanding share-based awards), certain retirement plans for Company employees and other agreements. Upon consummation, we will no longer benefit from certain synergies as a result of our ownership by Nestlé. Alcon has taken advantage of the synergies in several functional areas. We do not anticipate a significant financial impact to Alcon due to the loss of these synergies because we are currently negotiating with certain vendors/suppliers and financial services providers to mitigate any potential impact from a change of control. However, no assurances can be made at this time. As a result of Novartis's planned acquisition of Nestlé’s remaining Alcon shares, Alcon's relationships with third parties in the pharmaceutical and other industries may be impacted, which in some cases may affect Alcon's business development and licensing opportunities. Novartis also announced that it submitted to the Alcon board of directors a proposal for a merger of Alcon with and into Novartis to be effected under Swiss merger law. Under the terms of the merger proposal, holders of the approximate 23% of Alcon shares that are publicly traded would receive 2.8 Novartis shares for each Alcon share. The proposed merger would be contingent upon, among other things, approval by the Alcon board of directors, the closing of the purchase and sale transaction related to the Novartis option exercise as well as receipt of required regulatory approvals. As more fully discussed in Item 6.C, "Board Practices," upon Novartis becoming a majority shareholder of Alcon, we believe our Organizational Regulations provide that the Alcon board of directors may only approve the proposed mer ger if a majority of the Independent Director Committee so recommends; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any judicial proceeding that might be initiated to interpret or challenge this position. The Independent Director Committee was formed in 2008 in connection with Novartis's initial purchase of slightly less than 25% of the Alcon shares from Nestlé to evaluate transactions such as the merger proposed by Novartis. The Independent Director Committee engaged independent financial and legal advisors in connection with its evaluation of the proposed merger. On January 20, 2010, the Independent Director Committee issued its formal response rejecting the Novartis merger proposal. The committee rejected the merger proposal based on its assessment that the price offered and other terms were not acceptable and that Novartis's merger proposal was not in the best interests of Alcon and its minority shareholders. Further information on Novarti s's merger proposal can be found in Item 7.B, "Related Party Transactions." Our common shares may experience price volatility from the regulatory and judicial actions, both positive and negative, with respect to Novartis's purchase of Nestlé's common shares of Alcon and to any merger transaction proposed by Novartis. 11 The consummation of the purchase and sale transaction under the Purchase and Option Agreement and any merger transaction proposed by Novartis are subject to regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain necessary approval of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") and/or similar regulatory agencies in other countries potentially could prohibit Novartis's purchase of common shares of Alcon and/or any merger transaction proposed by Novartis. Such failure could depress Alcon's share price. As further discussed in Item 8.A.7, "Legal Proceedings," certain Alcon minority shareholders have filed several class action lawsuits related to Novartis's merger proposal concerning the acquisition of the remaining 23% publicly held minority interest. The claims vary among the cases, but include allegations of: (i) breach of contract against Alcon; (ii) tortious interference with contract against Novartis and Nestlé; (iii) breach of fiduciary duties against the Alcon board of directors, Nestlé and Novartis; (iv) aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duties against the Alcon board of directors, Nestlé and Novartis; (v) breach of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act against Novartis and Nestlé for an alleged failure to disclose that they were acting as a "group;" and (vi) breach of Section 14(d) of the Exch ange Act against Novartis and Nestlé for an alleged failure to file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission the materials required in connection with a "tender offer." Seven of the cases were filed in the Southern District of New York, all of which have been consolidated into one class action case. One case, which does not name Alcon, Inc. and its board of directors as parties, has been filed in the Eastern District of New York. Two cases are pending in District Court, Tarrant County, Texas; one case is pending in the U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Texas, Fort Worth Division; and two cases have been filed in the County Court at Law, Dallas County, Texas. Our Organizational Regulations and Swiss law contain provisions intended to protect minority shareholders; however, they are subject to interpretation by the judicial courts, which may or may not interpret them in favor of the minority shareholders. As the regulatory and judicial proceedings move forward, the price of our common shares may be affected both by speculation and by official decisions. Furthermore, as a result of actions in these proceedings, Novartis may withdraw its merger proposal, which withdrawal may depress our share price. Sales or distributions of our common shares by Nestlé or Novartis could depress the market price for our common shares. Subject to provisions in the agreements between Nestlé and Novartis, either Nestlé or Novartis may, at any time, sell all or part of our common shares that it owns or it may distribute those common shares to its shareholders. There can be no assurance that any of our other shareholders will be included in any transaction in the event Nestlé or Novartis sells its interest in us to another party or that any of our shareholders will realize a premium with respect to their common shares as a result of such transaction or any other disposition of our common shares by Nestlé or Novartis. In addition, sales or distributions by Nestlé or Novartis of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shar es. Except as provided in the agreements between Nestlé and Novartis, Nestlé and Novartis are not subject to any contractual obligation to maintain their respective ownership positions in our shares. Under the Purchase and Option Agreement, until the earlier of a closing pursuant to the exercise of the option rights or July 31, 2011, neither Nestlé nor Novartis shall buy, sell, otherwise encumber or take any action to register with the SEC any of Alcon's common shares. Nestlé provides services discussed under "Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions" that are beneficial to the Company and its operating results. Under a divestiture by Nestlé, the Company may be forced to either seek other providers of these services or add these functions internally. Although we are currently negotiating with certain vendors/suppliers and financial services providers to mitigate any potential impact from a change of control, there can be no assurance that these alternatives could not have a negative impact on our results of operations or our financial condition. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may fluctuate. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, both within and outside our control, such as announcements of innovations and discoveries or new products by us or our competitors, developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals, and changes in 12 estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts. At December 31, 2009, 184,000 stock options and 1.3 million share-settled stock appreciation rights granted under our incentive plan were scheduled to become exercisable in 2010. To the extent that such instruments are exercised and there are sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market in connection with or immediately following such exercise by the holders of these rights, the market price of our common shares may decrease significantly. The stock market in general sometimes experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and medical device companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common shares, which could cause a decline in the value of our common shares. You should be aware also that for the size of our company, Alcon has relatively fewer shares that trade on a daily basis than other similar companies in our industry. As a result, price volatility of our shares may be greater when the trading volume of our common shares is low. Risks Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Switzerland and Swiss law governs our internal corporate affairs. We are a corporation incorporated under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Swiss corporate law and by our Articles of Association. In particular, Swiss corporate law limits the ability of a shareholder to challenge resolutions or actions of our board of directors in court. Shareholders generally are not permitted to file a suit to reverse a decision or action by directors but are permitted to seek damages for breaches of fiduciary duty. Shareholder claims against a director for breach of fiduciary duty would, as a matter of Swiss law, have to be brought at our place of incorporation in the Canton of Zug, Switzerland, or at the domicile of the involved director. In addition, under Swiss law, any claims by shareholders against us must be brought exclusively at our place of incorporation. Under Swiss corporate law, we are required to declare dividends in Swiss francs. As a result, any currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc will affect the dollar value of the dividends we pay. In addition, in several instances we follow Swiss corporate governance practices instead of the corporate governance practices applicable to a U.S. company under New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") listing standards. A summary of the principal areas of difference is provided under Item 16G, "Corporate Governance." Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We devote substantial resources to research and development. The research and development process is expensive and prolonged, and it entails considerable risk. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between eight and fifteen years or more for a pharmaceutical product and between three and seven years or more for a medical device. Each of these periods varies considerably depending on the product and the country where registration is sought. Because of the risk associated with our research and development, products we are currently developing may not obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully or they may take longer than we expect to gain necessary governmental, regulatory or other approval. They may cost more to develop and may be less successful than we currently anticipate, or than other therapies that are presently or soon may be on the market. We can make no assurances that any of the projects currently in our development pipeline will result in commercially successful products. If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade physicians to adopt new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products and our sales and profits may decline. The pharmaceutical, medical device and over-the-counter industries are characterized by continual product development, constant innovation in products and techniques, frequent new product introductions and price competition. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products which are more effective in treating diseases and disorders of the eye or that incorporate the latest technologies. In addition, we must be able to manufacture new products and effectively persuade a sufficient number of eye care professionals and/or consumers 13 to use the new products we introduce. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new competing product is introduced by one of our competitors or if we announce a new product that, in either case, represents a substantial improvement over our existing products. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our major products are covered by patents that give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. As a result, our sales and profits could decline significantly due to increased competition. In addition, we may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire. For instance, our successful combination ocular anti-infective/anti-inflammatory product, TobraDex® ophthalmic suspension and ointment, lost its exclusive marketing position in the United States in January 2009. Both a competitor and our Falcon Pharmaceuticals subsidiary launched generic versions of TobraDex® suspension in early January 2009. We expect that the new competitive generic products will continue to result in a decline of our sales and profits for TobraDex®. We depend on proprietary technologies and may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. We currently hold approximately 5,750 patents and have approximately 3,950 pending patent applications. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrecy laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. From time to time, we have faced challenges of our intellectual property rights and face current challenges to some of our key products. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that any pending patent application held by us will result in an issued patent or that, if patents are issued to us, such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. Any litigation to protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not be successful. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of patents in our industry frequently involve complex legal issues that are not easily resolved. Alcon, either alone or jointly with its commercial partners, has filed thirteen North American patent infringement actions against six different generic drug companies. With the exception of international generic challenges, all of these generic drug companies are seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") approval to market generic versions of Alcon products, under what are known as Abbreviated New Drug Applications ("ANDAs"). The first infringement action was filed after Alcon received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. had filed an ANDA seeking approval to sell a generic version of Alcon's Vigamox® antibiotic ophthalmic solution. Moxifloxacin, the primary ingredient in Vigamox®, is licensed to Alcon by Bayer Schering Pharma AG. As part of its ANDA, Teva challenged three patents covering Alcon's innovator product Vigamox® . Two of the patents are owned by Alcon's licensor, Bayer Schering AG, and the third, which expires in 2020, is owned by Alcon. The two Bayer Schering patents were also the subject of another Teva ANDA seeking approval to sell a generic version of Bayer Schering's systemic moxifloxacin product, Avelox®. Suit was filed by Alcon and Bayer Schering as co-plaintiffs against Teva relative to the ANDA challenging Vigamox® on April 5, 2006 in the U.S. District Court in Delaware. Bayer Schering subsequently filed suit in the same court relative to the Avelox® ANDA, and the two suits were merged. Trial was scheduled to begin February 26, 2008, but the dispute betw een Bayer Schering and Teva relative to the two Bayer Schering patents was resolved by settlement on the eve of trial. Under the terms of the settlement, Teva acknowledged the validity and enforceability of both Bayer Schering patents, and further acknowledged that its proposed generic ophthalmic product would infringe both patents. Teva has therefore relinquished any claim that it is entitled to market the generic ophthalmic product prior to September 4, 2014. Alcon remains the exclusive ophthalmic licensee under the Bayer Schering Pharma patents. The trial relative to the Alcon patent began on February 28, 2008 and concluded on March 6, 2008. Since then, Alcon has received a notice of allowance on a related patent application with claims that will cover the Vigamox® product and Teva's proposed< /font> 14 generic product. The issue fee has been paid on that application, and the patent should issue by the first quarter of 2010. On October 19, 2009, the court ruled in Alcon’s favor on all counts, finding the Alcon patent to be valid and infringed by the proposed generic product. On November 19, 2009, Teva filed a Notice of Appeal, but that appeal was subsequently set aside by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals as being premature. It is expected that the appeal will be reinstated after the lower court amends its form of judgment. However, even if Teva were to succeed in having the district court decision reversed on appeal, it would still have to address Alcon’s recently allowed second patent before competing with Alcon's Vigamox® product in September 2014 when the underlying Bayer patent expires. If Teva were to win on appeal and overcome Alcon’s second patent, the resulting generic competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. On a related note, Alcon’s European counterpart patent to the patent-in-suit was determined to be invalid in a European Patent Office Opposition Proceeding. That invalidity decision was upheld by an Enlarged Board of Appeal on October 22, 2009. The second patent infringement action was filed after Alcon received notice that Apotex, a Canadian-based generic drug company, had filed an ANDA challenging one of the patents covering Alcon's Patanol® anti-allergy eye product. Alcon's raw material supplier, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., holds another U.S. patent, which has not been challenged in this case and which expires on December 18, 2010. In addition, Alcon has secured a six-month pediatric extension to the patent coverage, which means this generic challenge poses no threat to the Patanol< font style="DISPLAY: inline; FONT-SIZE: 70%; VERTICAL-ALIGN: text-top">® product market prior to June 2011. The patent that Apotex has challenged, which is co-owned by Alcon and Kyowa, will expire in 2015. Alcon and Kyowa, as co-plaintiffs, filed suit against Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. on November 15, 2006 in the U.S. District Court in Indianapolis, Indiana. As a result of the lawsuit filing, the FDA was required to delay any approval of the Apotex ANDA for 30 months until April 2009, unless the litigation were earlier resolved or the court were to modify the 30-month stay on FDA approval. Because of the protection until June 2011, provided by the unchallenged Kyowa patent, the expiration of the 30-month period was inconsequential. Trial had been scheduled for July 27, 2009, but was postponed and has now been rescheduled for April 26, 2010 (consolidated with the Sandoz case described below). Should Apotex succeed in overcoming th e challenged patent and secure FDA approval, it would not be entitled to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon's Patanol® product in the United States until June 18, 2011. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The third patent infringement action was filed after Alcon received notice on October 1, 2007 that Barr Laboratories, Inc. had filed an ANDA challenging the patents underlying Alcon's Patanol® product. Unlike the Apotex ANDA described above, which is challenging only the patent jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon, the Barr ANDA was also challenging Kyowa's composition patent on olopatadine, the active agent in Patanol®. Alcon and Kyowa filed suit in the Federal District Court in Indianapolis (where the Apotex case is pending) on October 23, 2 007. As a result of the lawsuit filing, the FDA was required to delay any approval of the Barr ANDA for 30 months unless the litigation were earlier resolved or the court modified the 30-month stay on FDA approval. The 30-month period after which the FDA could approve Barr’s generic product would expire at the end of March 2010, nine months before the Kyowa composition patent expires. Trial was scheduled for late April 2010. However, in September 2009, Barr withdrew its ANDA and subsequently has been dismissed from the suit. The fourth patent infringement action was filed after Alcon received notice in late November 2008 that Barr Laboratories, Inc. had filed an ANDA challenging the patents underlying Alcon’s Pataday™ once daily olopatadine product. The Barr ANDA is challenging the patent jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon (described above), as well as two later issued patents owned by Alcon that cover the Pataday™ formulation. Of the two Alcon patents, the latest expiry date is November 2023. Barr is not challenging the Kyowa patent on olopat adine that expires in December 2010 (effectively extended until June 2011 by a pediatric extension). Alcon and Kyowa filed suit in the Federal District Court in Indianapolis on January 8, 2009. As a result of the lawsuit filing, the FDA must delay any approval of the Barr ANDA for 30 months unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. The 30-month period after which the FDA could approve Barr’s generic product will expire in May 2011. This case has been consolidated with the Apotex case (Pataday™) described below. Trial has not yet been scheduled in this case. If Barr succeeds in overcoming all of the challenged patents and secures FDA approval, it would be entit led to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon’s Pataday™ product in the United States on June 18, 2011. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. 15 The fifth and sixth ANDA patent suits were filed February 2, 2009 in the U.S. District Court in Indianapolis against Apotex and Sandoz, respectively. Alcon received notice January 12, 2009, that Apotex has followed Barr in filing an ANDA challenging the patents underlying Alcon’s Pataday™ once daily olopatadine product. Like Barr's ANDA, the Apotex ANDA is challenging the patent jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon (described above), as well as two later issued patents owned by Alcon that cover the Pataday™ formulation. Apotex is not challenging the Kyowa patent on olopatadine that expires in December 2010 (June 2011 with the pediatric extension). Because the suit was fil ed within the statutory 45-day period, the FDA must delay any approval of the Apotex ANDA for 30 months (until June 2011), unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. In addition, because Apotex is the second filer, it is also subject to the first filer's 180-day exclusivity period, which could further delay its FDA approval. Trial has not yet been scheduled in this case. If Apotex succeeds in overcoming both of the challenged patents and secures FDA approval, then after the expiration of Barr's potential 180-day "first filer" exclusivity period, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon’s Pataday™ product in the United States in June 2011. ; Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. Alcon received notice on January 15, 2009 that Sandoz Inc. (an affiliate of Novartis) has filed an ANDA challenging one of the patents underlying Alcon’s Patanol® product. Similar to the Apotex ANDA on Patanol®, the Sandoz ANDA is challenging only the patent jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon, but not the Kyowa-owned patent on olopatadine, which expires December 2010 (June 2011 with the pediatric extension). Because the suit was filed within the statutory 45-day period, the FDA must delay any approval of the Sandoz ANDA for 30 months ( until June 2011) unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. However, as a third ANDA filer (behind both Apotex and Barr), Sandoz would not be entitled to receive FDA approval until the expiration or forfeiture of a 180-day exclusivity period that would be granted to Apotex (the first filer) if it were successful in its patent challenge. Trial has been scheduled for April 26, 2010, and consolidation with the above-described Apotex suit (Patanol®) has been ordered by the court. Apotex has advised the court of recent public statements of intent by Novartis to acquire all outstanding shares of Alcon stock, and filed a motion to sever Sandoz from the trial. On February 22, 2010, the court granted t he motion, ordering the suit against Sandoz to proceed separately and confirming the April 26, 2010 trial date with Apotex. A new trial date for the Sandoz case has not yet been set. Subject to the possibility of the 180-day exclusivity period that could accrue to Apotex, if Sandoz succeeds in overcoming the challenged patent and secures FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon’s Patanol® product in the United States in June 2011. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The seventh ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice by letter dated March 17, 2009, that Barr Laboratories, Inc. had filed a Paragraph IV certification with its ANDA for a generic version of Alcon's TRAVATAN® product containing 0.004% travoprost. Barr is challenging the following patents listed in the Orange Book for TRAVATAN®: U.S. Patent Nos. 5,510,383; 5,631,287; 5,849,792; 5,889,052; and 6,011,062. With the exception of the '383 patent, which expires in 2013, all of the patents will expire in December 2014. Al con filed suit against Barr in the U.S. District Court in Delaware on April 30, 2009 and thereby secured the statutory 30-month stay on FDA approval of the generic product. The FDA must delay any approval of the Barr ANDA until September 2011, unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. This case has been consolidated with the Par and Apotex cases on TRAVATAN® described below. Trial has been scheduled to commence March 7, 2011. Should Barr succeed in overcoming all of the challenged patents and secure FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic travoprost product that would compete with Alcon’s TRAVATAN® produc t in the United States. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The eighth patent suit was filed after Sandoz Canada Inc. (an affiliate of Novartis) notified Alcon Canada by letter dated April 9, 2009, that Sandoz had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission ("ANDS") seeking approval from the Canadian Minister of Health to market a generic version of Alcon's Patanol® product. The Sandoz ANDS is challenging only one of the two patents listed in the Canadian Patent Register for the Patanol® product. The challenged patent (Canadian Patent No. 2,195,094) is jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon and expires in M ay 2016. Alcon and Kyowa filed suit on May 25, 2009 in the Federal Court in Toronto, thereby securing a 24-month delay (until May 25, 2011) in the regulatory approval from the Minister of Health, which can only be shortened if the 16 litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 24-month stay on such approval. Trial has not yet been scheduled in this case. Should Sandoz succeed in overcoming the challenged patent and secure Minister of Health approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon’s Patanol® product in Canada well before the patent expiration in 2016, but not before expiration of the unchallenged patent in November 2012. Such competition would be expected to impact the Company's sales and profits. The ninth ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice by letter dated June 1, 2009, that Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. had filed a Paragraph IV certification with its two ANDAs for generic versions of Alcon’s TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z® products. Par is challenging the following patents listed in the Orange Book for TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z®: U.S. Patent Nos. 5,510,383; 5,631,287; 5,849,792; 5,889,052; 6,011,062; 6,503,497; and 6,849,253. All of these patents will expire by the end of 2014. On July 1, 2009, Alcon filed suit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware, thereby securing a statutory stay under which the FDA must delay any approval of the Par ANDAs until December 2011, unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. All of the cases about TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z® (Barr, Par and Apotex) have now been consolidated. Trial has been scheduled for March 7, 2011. Subject to the possibility of the 180-day exclusivity period that could accrue to Barr (as first filer) relative to the TRAVATAN® product, if Par succeeds in overcoming all of the challenged patents and secures FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling generic travoprost products that would compete with Alcon’s TRAVATAN ® a nd TRAVATAN Z® products in the United States in December 2011. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. The tenth ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice by letter dated June 24, 2009, that Barr Laboratories, Inc. had filed a Paragraph IV certification with its ANDA for a generic version of Alcon’s TRAVATAN Z® product. Barr is challenging the following patents listed in the Orange Book for TRAVATAN Z®: U.S. Patent Nos. 5,510,383; 5,889,052; 6,503,497; and 6,849,253. All of the patents wil l expire by the end of 2014. On July 13, 2009, Alcon filed suit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware, thereby securing a statutory stay under which the FDA must delay any approval of the Barr ANDA until December 2011, unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. Trial has been scheduled for March 7, 2011 in this case, which has been consolidated with the above-described Barr suit (TRAVATAN®) and Par suit (TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z®) and consolidated further t o include the Apotex suit (TRAVATAN®) described below. Subject to the possibility of the 180-day exclusivity period that could accrue to Par (as first filer) relative to the TRAVATAN Z® product, if Barr succeeds in overcoming all of the challenged patents and secures FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic travoprost product that would compete with Alcon’s TRAVATAN Z® product in the United States in December 2011. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. The eleventh ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice by letter dated September 11, 2009, that Apotex Corp. and Apotex Inc. had filed an ANDA for a generic version of Alcon's TRAVATAN® product. Apotex is challenging all five of the Orange Book listed patents for TRAVATAN® 5,510,383; 5,631,287; 5,849,792; 5,889,052; and 6,011,062. Alcon filed suit in the U.S. District Court in Delaware, thereby securing a statutory stay under which the FDA must delay any approval of the Barr ANDA until M arch 2012, unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. This case has been consolidated with the Barr and Par cases (TRAVATAN® and TRAVATAN Z®) described above. Trial has been scheduled for March 7, 2011. Subject to the possibility of the 180-day exclusivity period that could accrue to Barr (as first filer) relative to the TRAVATAN® product, if Apotex succeeds in overcoming all of the challenged patents and secures FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic travoprost product that would compete with Alcon’s TRAVATAN ® product in the United States in March 2012. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. Alcon received notice dated October 19, 2009, that Apotex Corp. and Apotex Inc. have filed an ANDA challenging U.S. Patent No. 5,116,863, which covers Alcon's Patanase® olopatadine hydrochloride nasal spray solution. The patent, which is owned by Alcon's raw material supplier, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., and licensed to Alcon, has a term extended by regulatory exclusivity that expires October 15, 2011. Alcon had until December 3, 2009 to file suit and avail itself of the statutory stay on FDA approval of the ANDA. Had suit been filed by that date, the FDA could not have approved the Apotex ANDA for 30 months unless the litigation were earlier resolved or the court modified the 30-month stay on FDA approval. In this case, however, the 30-month period would be shortened to coincide with the expiration date of the challenged patent in December 2010 and therefore would be inconsequential. Moreover, Alcon has regulatory exclusivity for the Patanase® product extending until October 17 2011. Under these circumstances, Alcon and Kyowa elected not to file suit. Alcon also has additional pending patent applications that are potentially relevant to the Patanase® product, which are not currently listed in the FDA Orange Book, and which have not been challenged by Apotex. These pending applications may or may not issue and may not cover the Patanase® product. Should Apotex succeed in securing FDA approval and overcoming the challenged patent and any other applicable patents that may issue, it would be entitled to immediately begin selling a generic olopat adine product that would compete with Alcon's Patanase® product in the United States. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The twelfth ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice on December 15, 2009 that Sandoz Inc. (an affiliate of Novartis) had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification directed to the Alcon and Kyowa patents on Pataday™. The Sandoz ANDA is challenging the patent jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon (described above), as well as two later issued patents owned by Alcon that cover the Pataday™ formulation. Of the two Alcon patents, the latest expiry date is November 2023. Sandoz is not challenging the Kyowa patent on olopatadine that expires in December 2010 (effectively extended until June 2011 by a pediatric extension). On January 27, 2010, Alcon and Kyowa filed suit in the Federal District Court in Indianapolis. Because the suit was filed within the statutory 45-day period, the FDA must delay any approval of the Sandoz ANDA for 30 months (until June 2012) unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. However, because Sandoz is the third filer (behind both Barr and Apotex) and subject to a potential 180-day exclusivity period of the first filer, the 30-month stay is of no practical consequence. Subject to the possibility of the 180-day exclusivity period that potentially could accrue to Barr (as first filer) relative to the Pataday™ product, if Sandoz were to succeed in overcoming all the challenged patents and to secure FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic product that would compete with Alcon’s Pataday™ product in the United States. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. The thirteenth ANDA patent suit was filed after Alcon received notice that Wockhardt Limited (headquartered in India) has filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for a generic version of Alcon's Patanol® product. Wockhardt is challenging U.S. Patent No. 5,641,805, which is jointly owned by Alcon and its raw material supplier, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. The challenged patent will expire in 2015. Wockhardt is not challenging, however, another Kyowa-owned U.S. patent covering Patanol®, which expires on December 18, 2010 (effectively extended until June 2011 by a pediatric extension). Consequently, Wockhardt's generic challenge poses no threat to the Patanol® product market prior to June 2011. Alcon and Kyowa filed suit against Wockhardt in the Federal District Court in Indianapolis on February 12, 2010, to avail themselves of the statutory 30-month stay on FDA approval of the proposed generic product. That 30-month period will expire August 2, 2012, unless the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 30-month stay on FDA approval. However, as a third ANDA filer (behind both Apotex and Sandoz), Wockhardt would not be entitled to receive FDA approval until the expiration or forfeiture of a 180-day exclusivity peri od that would be granted to Apotex (the first filer) if it were successful in its patent challenge. Subject to the possibility of such a 180-day exclusivity period that potentially could accrue to Apotex (as first filer) relative to the Patanol® product, if Wockhardt were to succeed in overcoming the challenged patent and to secure FDA approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic product that would compete with Alcon’s Patanol® product in the United States. Such competition would be expected to impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. By letter dated February 24, 2010, Apotex, Inc. notified Alcon Canada that Apotex had filed an ANDS seeking approval from the Canadian Minister of Health to market a generic version of Alcon's Patanol® product. The Apotex ANDS is challenging only one of the two patents listed in the Canadian Patent Register for the Patanol® product. The challenged patent (Canadian Patent No. 2,195,094) is jointly owned by Kyowa and Alcon and expires in May 2016. Alcon and Kyowa will have fifty days from the date of the notice letter to file suit and secure a 24-month delay (until April 2012) in the regulatory approval from the Minister of Health, which can only be shortened if the litigation is earlier resolved or the court modifies the 24-month stay on such approval. Should Apotex succeed in overcoming the challenged patent and secure Minister of Health approval, it would be entitled to begin selling a generic olopatadine product that would compete with Alcon’s Patanol® product in Canada well before the patent expiration in 2016, but not before expiration of the unchallenged patent in November 2012. Such competition would be expected to impact the Company's sales and profits. Alcon is also enforcing patents against generic challengers in China (Patanol®) and Chile (Vigamox®). 18 On April 16, 2008, Synergetics USA, Inc., a microsurgical device company, filed a civil antitrust lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company and its subsidiary, Alcon Laboratories, Inc. Synergetics asserts that it has suffered losses resulting from alleged unlawful/unfair practices and seeks a recovery that it claims could exceed $100 million. Synergetics alleges that Alcon has used monopoly power in the market for vitreoretinal surgical equipment to control purchasing decisions in favor of its surgical illumination sources and associated accessories, and that Alcon has done this to the detriment of sales of Synergetics's products, particularly its line of light sources, light pipes and other accessories. Synergetics also asserts that Alcon engaged in alle gedly anti-competitive behavior. On June 23, 2008, the Company filed its answer and counterclaim in the district court. Synergetics subsequently amended its original Complaint, and on October 14, 2008, the Company filed its Motion to Dismiss Synergetics's First Amended Complaint. On February 12, 2009, Synergetics filed a Motion for Summary Judgment relative to the Company’s counterclaims. On February 23, 2009, the court granted the Company’s Motions to Dismiss based on Synergetics’s failure to properly plead its claims. On March 6, 2009, Synergetics filed a Second Amended Complaint. The Company then filed another Motion to Dismiss directed to the Second Amended Complaint. That motion was granted in-part and denied in-part on June 4, 2009. On July 9, 2009, the court granted Synergetics’s Motion for Summary Judgment on the Company’s counterclaims. The Company believes that it has str ong defenses to Synergetics’s claims, but both parties have requested a stay of the litigation to allow settlement discussions to proceed. A subsidiary of the Company, Alcon Research, Ltd., filed a Complaint on October 9, 2008 against Synergetics USA, Inc. for patent infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,603,710, entitled, "Laser Delivery System with Soft Tip." The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas in Fort Worth. The Complaint asserts that Synergetics has knowingly and willfully infringed the Company's patent, which is directed to ophthalmic laser delivery systems having a probe with a soft tip. In addition to seeking actual and exemplary monetary damages relating to the willful patent infringement and injunctive relief to prevent Synergetics from continuing its infringement of the patent, the Company is requesting that the district court award the Company its attorneys' fees and costs. Syner getics has answered the Complaint and counterclaimed for a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and patent invalidity. No trial date has been set. An adverse ruling by the court, while possible, would not be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. On February 25, 2009, the Company, together with subsidiaries Alcon Laboratories, Inc. and Alcon Research, Ltd., filed a second suit against Synergetics in the U.S. District Court in Fort Worth. This case alleges infringement of Alcon's U.S. Patent 5,318,560 directed to aspirating laser probes, as well as trademark infringement and unfair competition relating to Synergetics's unauthorized use of Alcon's marks (ALCON®, Accurus®, and Grieshaber®) on its website. On March 20, 2009, these claims were added to an amended complaint in the '710 patent suit described immediately above, effectively merging the two suits. An adverse ruling by the court, while possible, would not be expected to impact significantly the Company's sales and profits. Synergetics requested that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office reexamine both patents-in-suit and filed a motion to stay the litigation pending a decision by the Patent Office. On September 18, 2009, the court granted the motion to stay the litigation. Alcon filed a motion for reconsideration but that motion was denied on November 23, 2009. In view of ongoing settlement discussions, mentioned above, no appeal has been filed. On December 18, 2008, James M. Nielsen, M.D. filed a patent infringement suit against Alcon, Inc. and Alcon Laboratories, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas in Dallas. Dr. Nielsen is asserting that his U.S. Patent No. 5,158,572 entitled "Multifocal Intraocular Lens" is being infringed by the Company’s AcrySof® ReSTOR® intraocular lens. The patent, which expired at the end of October 2009, was previously licensed to Advanc ed Medical Optics, Inc. Alcon filed its Answer January 12, 2009. The Answer included a counterclaim for a declaratory judgment that the patent-in-suit is invalid and not infringed. The case has been set for trial in August, 2010. An adverse ruling by the court, while possible, would not be expected to impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. On January 22, 2009, Elan Pharma International Ltd. sued two of the Company's subsidiaries, Alcon Laboratories, Inc. and Alcon Research, Ltd., in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas in Sherman, alleging infringement of two Elan patents on nanoparticle technology (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,298,262 and 5,429,842). The complaint claims that the Company's Azopt® product and, potentially, other products infringe the two patents. The Company answered and counterclaimed on May 12, 2009. Elan then moved to dismiss certain of the Company’s affirmative defenses and counterclaims. The Company has filed an amended answer and co unterclaims 19 providing greater detail with respect to the Company’s inequitable conduct counterclaims. The case has been set for trial March 21, 2011. The Company believes that it has strong defenses and intends to defend itself vigorously. An adverse ruling by the court, however, could impact significantly the Company’s sales and profits. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a variety of other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of business, including proceedings relating to product liability and patent infringement. The Company believes that it has valid defenses and is vigorously defending the litigation pending against it. While the results of the aforementioned contingencies cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations. Litigation contingencies are subject to change based on settlements and court decisions. The Company may be subject to future litigation and infringement claims, which could cause the Company to incur significant expenses or prevent the Company from selling its products. The Company operates in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. Product liability claims may be asserted against the Company in the future arising out of events not known to the Company at the present time. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our sales and profits; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming even if it is possible to do so. Economic conditions and price competition may cause sales of our products used in elective surgical procedures to decline and reduce our profitability. Sales of products used in elective surgical procedures have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Generally, the costs of elective surgical procedures are borne by individuals with limited reimbursement from their medical insurance providers or government programs. Accordingly, individuals may be less willing to incur the costs of these procedures in weak or uncertain economic conditions, there may be a decline in the number of these procedures, there may be a decline in the amount we realize for each procedure and the market for equipment used in such procedure may be negatively impacted. Inability of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement or maintain the current level of reimbursement from third-party payors could limit market acceptance of our products or reduce the prices we receive for our products, which could impact adversely our sales and profits. The initiatives of managed care organizations and governments to contain healthcare costs in the United States and in other countries are placing an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. This emphasis could adversely affect sales and prices of our products. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers may be reluctant to purchase our products if they do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our pharmaceutical and surgical products and for procedures performed using our products from both governmental and private third-party payors. For example: · Major third-party payors for hospital services, including government insurance plans, Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, resulting in stricter standards for and lower levels of reimbursement of hospital and outpatient charges for some medical procedures. · Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending could lower our effective average selling price. In the United States, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") impose controls on the prices at which medical devices and physician-administered drugs used in ophthalmic surgery are reimbursed for Medicare patients. Many private third-party payors use CMS guidelines in determining reimbursement levels. In addition, recent government initiatives, such as the U.S. Medicare Part D outpatient prescription drug benefit, 20 · or future government initiatives may negatively impact the number of units we sell or the price we realize for our pharmaceutical products. · Most European Union ("EU") member states impose controls on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under state-run healthcare schemes. Some member states operate reference pricing systems in which they set national reimbursement prices by reference to those in other member states. Increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending and increased transparency of prices, following the adoption of the European euro, have meant that an increasing number of governments have adopted this approach. Furthermore, with increased price transparency, parallel importation of pharmaceuticals from lower price level countries to higher priced markets has grown, and these parallel imports lower our effective average selling price. · Japan also imposes controls on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under the national healthcare schemes. Due to increased pressures to reduce government healthcare spending, the Japanese government continues to seek cuts where possible, and is actively promoting the use of generic products. · Managed care organizations in the United States restrict the pharmaceutical products that doctors in those organizations can prescribe through the use of formularies, the lists of drugs that physicians are permitted to prescribe to patients in a managed care organization. Exclusion of our pharmaceutical products from these formularies or additional price concessions necessary to be included on formularies could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profits. · Competitors may introduce generic products that compete directly or indirectly with our products and such generic products may reduce our unit sales and prices. · There are proposed and existing laws and regulations governing product prices that may negatively affect the profitability of companies in the healthcare industry. · There have been recent initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products, which could affect our profitability. · Reductions in the prices for our products in response to these trends could reduce our profits. Moreover, our products may not be covered in the future by third-party payors. The failure of our products to be so covered could cause our profits to decline. · Legislation is currently pending in the United States Congress that contemplates significant changes to the healthcare system in the United States including reimbursement for pharmaceutical and medical device products, potential fees or excise taxes imposed on manufacturers and distributors of pharmaceutical and medical device products, fees or excise taxes imposed on administrators of insurance plans and additional reporting requirements surrounding interactions with healthcare providers. These changes may reduce the reimbursement for our products and negatively impact selling prices, increase rebates and fees that we provide to the federal and various state governments, increase the cost of our insurance plans and increase administrative costs associated with compliance activities. The FDA and other regulators may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which would reduce the profitability of our prescription products. In October 2006 and at the request of the holder of both the patent and the New Drug Application ("NDA"), the FDA revised the status of the allergy drug Zaditor® (Novartis AG) from "prescription only" to "over-the-counter," or "OTC." The approval by the FDA of the sale of this and other pharmaceutical products without a prescription may reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. Medicines regulators in other jurisdictions have similar powers to authorize OTC switches, either on their own initiative or in response to an approval-holder's request. Managed care organizations or other third-party payors may petition the FDA or other medicines regulators to permit sales of some o f our pharmaceutical products on a non-prescription basis, which could reduce our profits. 21 Changes in inventory levels or fluctuations in buying patterns by our large wholesale and large retail customers may adversely affect our sales and earnings and add to their variability from quarter to quarter. We also face additional risks due to the concentration of certain sales with large retail and wholesale customers. A significant portion of our pharmaceutical and eye care products are sold to major pharmaceutical and healthcare distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, our sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, large retailers' and wholesalers' buying decisions or other factors. We can provide no assurance that large retail and wholesale purchases will not decrease as a result of fluctuations in buying patterns. Additionally, we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk to these customers that, if affected by financial difficulty, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The consolidation of wholesale and retail customers could further increase pricing and competitive pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. Wholesale and retail customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical and consumer eye care products in the United States. This distribution network has undergone significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors and retail pharmacy chains control a significant share of the market. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retail pharmacy chains has led to and may further increase pricing and competitive pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, this consolidation may lead to excess inventories and result in reduced wholesaler and retailer purchases in future quarters. The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries. We have more than 75 local operations worldwide and more than half of our revenues in 2009 came from customers outside the United States. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to currency translation risk. In 2009, our most significant currency exposures were to the euro, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar, the British pound sterling, the Brazilian real and the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates between these and other foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. In addition, we are exposed to transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies have had in the past, and may have in the future, a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including lower profit margins, less stringent protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in countries in which we operate, especially in emerging markets. These and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. For example, many emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially. If currencies devalue and we cannot offset with price increases, our products may become less profitable. Inflation in emerging markets also makes ou r products less profitable and increases our exposure to credit risks. We have experienced currency fluctuations, inflation and volatile economic conditions, which have impacted our profitability in the past in several markets and we may experience such impacts in the future. The current economic and financial crisis appears to be affecting all of the major markets in which we operate. As a result, there is a risk that consumers may reduce their expenditures on prescription drugs, over-the-counter healthcare products and other healthcare spending to help cope with hard economic times. In addition, governments may come under increasing pressure to reduce healthcare expenditures as a result of lower revenue and increased 22 demand for other government services during this financial crisis. Both of these items could have a negative impact on our sales and profits. We single-source many of the active ingredients and components used in our products and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. We single-source active ingredients contained in a majority of our pharmaceutical and consumer eye care products, including OPTI-FREE® EXPRESS® No Rub® and OPTI-FREE® RepleniSH® contact lens care solutions, both Systane® and Systane® Ultra lubricant eye drops, both PatanolÒ and Pataday™ ophthalmic solutions and Vigamox® moxifloxacin ophthalmic solution. In these cases, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, including from the FDA, to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy process. In many cases, we use single-source suppliers for other components and raw materials used in our products. The loss of any of these or other significant suppliers or the inability of any such supplier to meet performance and quality specifications, requested quantities or delivery schedules could cause our sales and profitability to decline and have a negative impact on our customer relations. In addition, a significant price increase from any of our single-source suppliers could cause our profitability to decline if we cannot increase our prices to our customers. In order to ensure sufficient supply, we may determine tha t we need to provide financing to some of our single-source suppliers, which could increase our financial exposure to such suppliers. In many cases, we manufacture a product at a single-source facility, and an inability to produce a sufficient quantity of, or any disruption in the manufacturing of, a product at the relevant facility could impair our ability to fill customer orders and could reduce our sales. In some cases, we manufacture a product, including some of our key products, at a single manufacturing facility. In many cases, regulatory approvals of our products are limited to a specific approved manufacturing facility. If we fail to produce enough of a product at a facility, or if our manufacturing process at that facility is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver that product to our customers on a timely basis. A failure to deliver products on a timely basis could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Significant delays in the delivery of our products or a delay in the delivery of a key product also could negatively impact our sales and profitability. Some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties under contract. Business conditions and regulatory actions may lead to recalls of products assembled or manufactured by these companies, may result in delays in shipments of such products or may cause these contractors to abandon their contract manufacturing agreements. Any of these occurrences could have a negative impact on sales and profitability. Unauthorized or illegal importation of products from countries with lower prescription drug and medical device prices to countries with higher prescription drug and medical device prices may result in lowering the prices we receive for our products. In the United States and elsewhere, our products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada, Mexico and other countries where there are government imposed price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of regulatory harmonization and common market or trade initiatives, such as those underpinning the European Union, and the internet. Despite government regulations in some countries aimed at limiting low priced imports, the volume of imports may continue to rise due to the limited enforcement resources, as well as political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicin es. In addition, legislative proposals are being considered in the United States at both the federal and state levels to relax U.S. import laws. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States and elsewhere. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there are further changes to the law or if state or local governments take further steps to import products from abroad. We are subject to extensive government regulation related to (i) the review and market approval of both drugs and medical devices, (ii) ongoing compliance and reporting obligations for products with post-approval review and (iii) ongoing pricing and reimbursement reviews for both drugs and devices. These government 23 regulations increase our internal processes and costs to secure and maintain market registration of our drug and device products. Government regulation also could prevent us from selling our products. The research, development, testing, manufacturing, sale and marketing of our products are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, marketing, promotion, record keeping, reporting, the sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products, import, export, samples and electronic records and electronic signatures. We are also subject to government regulation with respect to the prices we charge and the rebates we offer or pay to customers, including rebates paid to certain governmental entities. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. In the United States, we must obtain FDA approval for each pharmaceutical product that we market and FDA approval or clearance for each medical device that we market, and additional approvals or clearances may be required for product changes. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed outside the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. Our potential products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval or may never gain approval. If a regulatory authority delays approval of a potentially significant product, our market value and operating results may decline. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the appr oval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our products, we will not be able to market these products, which would result in a decrease in our sales. Currently, we are actively pursuing approval for a number of our products from regulatory authorities and conducting other pre-market procedures in a number of countries, including, among others, the United States, countries in the European Union and Japan. Continued growth in our sales and profits will depend, in part, on the timely and successful introduction and marketing of some or all of these products. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, clinical trials, yet we cannot be certain that the trials will result in the commercial sale of a product. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials show promising results. Any of our products may produce undesirable side effects that could cause us, regulatory authorities or research sites to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a pharmaceutical or medical device candidate. We, the FDA or another regulatory authority, an Institutional Review Board or a Safety Data Monitoring Committee charged with overseeing the research to protect study subjects may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. Noncompliance with applicable legal regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. The FDA and other regulatory bodies across the world also have authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. We may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with post-approval legal and regulatory requirements and our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory and law enforcement authorities, including, in the United States, the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, the CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services and state and local governments. Any product for which we currently have or may obtain marketing approval, or clearance, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data that we might be required to collect, adverse events and malfunctions associated with the products, and the advertising and promotional activities for the product, are subject to continual recordkeeping and r eporting requirements, review and periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. Our advertising and promotion are subject to stringent regulatory rules and oversight. In the past, we have had to change or discontinue promotional materials because of regulatory 24 agency requests, and we are exposed to that possibility in the future and also to the possibility of new civil monetary penalties that have been established for violative promotion of drug products to consumers. New requirements and industry guidelines have been adopted to require the posting of ongoing drug and device clinical trials on public registries, and the disclosure of designated clinical trial results. We must continually review adverse event and other available safety information that we receive concerning our products and make expedited and periodic reports to regulatory authorities. In any given situation, we may consider whether to implement a voluntary product recall. We might be required to report to the FDA certain medical device recalls, device malfunctions or product defects and failures to meet federal electronic product standards. In the United States, any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the require ments of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations. In addition, certain of our products must comply with child-resistant packaging requirements under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act and Consumer Product Safety Commission regulations. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs also must comply with rules governing the promotion of medicines and devices, anti-bribery rules and related laws, such as the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the False Claims Act, as amended, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as amended, and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, as amended. The statutes and regulations governing the various price reporting requirements are complex and have changed over time, a nd the U.S. government has not given clear guidance on many issues. In addition, recent statutory and regulatory developments have not yet been applied by the government or courts to specific factual situations. We believe that the Company is in compliance with all applicable government price reporting requirements, but there is the potential that the CMS, other regulatory and law enforcement agencies or a court could arrive at different interpretations, with adverse financial or other consequences for the Company. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Most European Union member states and Japan impose controls and restrictions that are similar in nature or effect to those described above. In recent years, several states in the United States, including California, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Texas, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as prohibiting pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical companies for use in sales and marketing. Similar legislation is being considered in other states and at the federal level in the United States. Many of these requirements are new and their br eadth and application is uncertain, and most apply only to drugs; however, certain legislation (e.g., California, Massachusetts, Nevada and Vermont) also applies to devices. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these applicable legal and regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private "qui tam" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain approvals for our product candidates and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize any approved products. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 ("FDAAA") contains significant new regulatory requirements affecting pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. These new requirements share some of the broad themes in recently adopted legal requirements for drugs in the European Union. For drugs, the FDAAA grants the FDA extensive new authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, 25 require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies ("REMS"). The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans to healthcare professionals and restrictions on distribution and use. For example, if the FDA makes the necessary findings, it might require that a new product be used only by physicians with certain specialized training, only in certain designated healthcare settings or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also includes requirements for drugs and devices for providing the public with information on ongoing clinical trials through a clinical trial registry and for disclosing clinical trial results to the public through a clinical trial database, renewed requirements for conducting trials to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients, new requirements to pay the FDA a fee in order to obtain advisory review of certain drug consumer television advertisements and new penalties, for example, for false or misleading consumer drug advertisements. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug and device approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. States require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical and medical device products in that state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. New requirements also have been imposed in some states, and proposed in other states, requiring us to provide paper or electronic pedigrees with the drugs that we distribute to help establish their authenticity and to track their movement from the manufacturer through the chain of distribution. These new federal and state requirements and additional requirements that have been proposed, and might be adopted, may make the process more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates. In addition, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or come with onerous post-approval requirements, our ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered and our business may be harmed as a result. We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including surgical equipment and instruments, involve an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. A recall of one of our products or a product manufactured by another manufacturer could impair sales of other similar products we market as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall. A product recall also could lead to a regulatory agency inspection or other regulatory action. From time to time, we are named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, and although we believe we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future, including claims arising out of procedures performed using our surgical equipment. We historically have relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential product liability claims. The combination of our insurance coverage, cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy product liabilities that we may incur in the future. Furthermore, since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase third party product liability insurance coverage for this risk. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse p ublicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability. 26 Our manufacturing, research and development practices involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we have operations, governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety and environmental procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Remedial environmental actions or compliance with environmental laws could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations or our financial position. If we were involved in a major environmental accident or found to be in substantial non-compliance with applicable environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines that could be material. We historically have relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential environmental liability claims. The combination of our insurance coverage, cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy environmental liabilities that we may incur in the future. Furthermore, since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase insurance coverage for this risk. Any environmental claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful environmental liability claims brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. We self-insure through our captive insurance subsidiaries almost all of our property and casualty, business interruption and liability risks. We continue to purchase insurance from third parties when required by law and for the personal side of directors' and officers' liability insurance. The pharmaceutical and medical device business involves an inherent risk of product liability and any claims of this type could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, we have all the risks of property and casualty, general liability, business interruption and environmental liability exposures that are typical of a public enterprise with manufacturing and marketing activities. Historically, we have relied on a combination of self-insurance through our captive insurance subsidiaries and third-party insurance to cover potential claims from these risks. Since March 31, 2005, we no longer purchase any form of insurance from third parties except for insurance coverages required by law to be purchased from third parties, such as workers' compensation and automobile insurance. Consequently, we are exposed to all self-insured risks. However, we purchase the personal side of directors' and officers' liability insurance from a third party. Our captive insurance companies have invested premiums from our subsidiaries in a manner and for terms appropriate to their possible use under the standards required for all insurance companies. Although our third-party insurance coverage and internally generated cash flows have been adequate to provide for liability claims in the past, future liability claims and other losses from these risks could exceed our insurance coverage limits for past activities and future cash flows, and any significant losses from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. We may not successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions to expand or complement our business. As part of our growth strategy, we evaluate and pursue strategic business acquisitions to expand or complement our business. Such ventures may bring new products, increased market share or new customers to Alcon's prominent position in the ophthalmic industry. We cannot ensure that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified. Acquisition activities can be thwarted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation (including market concentration limitations) and replacement product developments in our industry. Further, after an acquisition, successful integration of the venture can be complicated by corporate cultural differences, difficulties in retention of key personnel, customers and suppliers, and coordination with other products and processes. Also, acquisitions could divert management's attention from our existing business and could result in liabilities being incurred that were not known at the time of acquisition or the creation of tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. We face risks arising from possible union legislation in the United States. 27 There is a possibility that the proposed Employee Free Choice Act may be enacted in the United States. If passed, the Employee Free Choice Act would make it far easier for unions to win elections and could result in more labor relations requirements and union activity in our business. This legislation potentially could increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our overall competitive position. 