Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Because of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We expect to incur operating losses throughout 2012 that, absent additional financing, would result in lower cash balances on hand by the end of 2012. We expect to incur operating losses and continued cash usage in 2012 as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures related to the strategic decision to double the size of our field sales team between early 2011 and early 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances of $40.3 million. While we believe our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months from the date of this report, if we do not borrow from our credit line or otherwise raise additional financing, our cash balances will be reduced to comparatively lower levels over the next twelve months. Should these lower cash balances materialize, it could make it more difficult to obtain new customers and retain existing customers. In addition, we could see increased employee attrition and difficulty attracting new employees. These developments could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and if we require additional funds in the future, such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and the amounts available under our line of credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, need to raise substantial additional capital due to changes in business conditions or other future developments or in order to: •expand the commercialization of our products; •fund our operations; •continue our research and development; •defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patents or violate other intellectual property rights; •commercialize new products; and •acquire companies and in-licensed products or intellectual property. 16 Table of Contents Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the time required for new sales managers to become productive. •successful implementation of, and achieving benefits from, our marketing activities; •market acceptance of our products; •the cost of our research and development activities; •the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications; •the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patents or violate other intellectual property rights; •the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; •the cost and timing of establishing additional technical support capabilities; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the market for such funding requirements and overall economic conditions; and We may require additional funds in the future and we may not be able to obtain such funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. The holders of new equity securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. We may also have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs. We also may have to reduce sales, marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these factors could harm our operating results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Resources. If we do not effect a smooth transition to a new Chief Executive Officer, our business and operating results may suffer and our stock price may decline. On October 3, 2011, we announced that our Chief Executive Officer, Ihab Abu-Hakima, had informed us of his determination to transition his role with our Company to new leadership. At that time, Mr. Abu-Hakima agreed pursuant to a transitional employment agreement to remain as our President and Chief Executive Officer for a transition period until the earlier of March 31, 2012, or the date that is thirty days after the date on which a new Chief Executive Officer is appointed and commences work in that capacity. However, Mr. Abu-Hakima remains an at-will employee and he may terminate his employment with us at any time for any reason. As of the date of this filing, efforts to identify and retain the new Chief Executive Officer are ongoing. In the event that we are unable to identify and retain a new Chief Executive Officer prior to March 31, 2012 or such earlier date as Mr. Abu-Hakima may elect to terminate his employment with us, or if we are otherwise unable to effect a smooth transition to a new Chief Executive Officer, our Board of Directors and senior management team may be challenged in their ability to effectively lead and manage Meru, it may result 17 Table of Contents in uncertainty from our business partners, customers, employees and investors and it may cause other disruptions to our business, any of which could harm our business and operating results and cause our stock price to decline. Our new Chief Executive Officer will likely also require a period of time to assimilate into our company and become fully productive, which could negatively impact our business, at least in the short term. In addition, we will incur substantial costs in connection with Mr. Abu-Hakima's transition, including costs relating to our financial obligations to Mr. Abu-Hakima under the transitional employment agreement and the fees of the executive search firm we have retained to assist us in identifying Chief Executive Officer candidates. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in January 2002 and began commercial shipments of our products in December 2003. As a result of our limited operating history, it is very difficult to forecast our future operating results. We face challenges in our business and financial planning as a result of the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to more mature companies with longer operating histories. These uncertainties make it difficult to predict our future operating results. If the assumptions we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to a change in our markets, our financial results could suffer. We have incurred significant losses since inception, and could continue to incur losses in the future. We have incurred significant losses since our inception, including net losses of $26.7 million, $36.6 million and $17.4 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $221.9 million. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs, sales and marketing programs, and non-cash adjustments to the fair value of our warrant liability. We expect to incur operating losses in the future as a result of the expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel for sales and marketing. Additionally, our general and administrative expenses have increased due to the additional operational and reporting costs associated with being a public company and we expect these costs to continue to increase. We may also increase our research and development expenses. Our ability to attain profitability in the future will be affected by, among other things, our ability to execute on our business strategy, the continued acceptance of our products, the timing and size of orders, the average selling prices of our products, the costs of our products, and the extent that we invest in our sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative resources. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability. As a result, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Fluctuations in our revenues and operating results could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict, even in the near term. Our historical operating results have in the past fluctuated significantly, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. We may not be able to accurately predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are relatively fixed in the short-term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some periods may be 18 Table of Contents below market expectations. This would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition to the other risk factors listed in this section, our operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: •our sales volume; •fluctuations in demand for our products and services, including seasonal variations; •average selling prices and the potential for increased discounting of products by us or our competitors; •the timing of revenue recognition in any given period as a result of revenue recognition guidance under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S.; •our ability to forecast demand and manage lead times for the manufacturing of our products; •shortages in the availability of components used in our products, including components whose manufacturing lead times have increased significantly or may increase in the future; •our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; •our ability to develop and maintain relationships with our channel partners; •our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve market acceptance; •any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; •reductions in customers' budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; •changes in the regulatory environment for the certification and sale of our products; •claims of intellectual property infringement against us and any resulting temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from selling our products or the requirement to pay damages or expenses associated with any such claims; and •general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. Further, as a result of customer buying patterns, historically we have received a substantial portion of a quarter's sales orders and generated a substantial portion of a quarter's revenues during the last two weeks of the quarter. If expected revenues at the end of any quarter are delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our inability to deliver products prior to quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the quarter, our failure to manage inventory properly in a way to meet demand, or our inability to release new products on schedule, our revenues for that quarter could be materially and adversely affected and could fall below market expectations. As a result of the above factors, or other factors, our operating results in one or more future periods may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. We compete in a rapidly evolving market, and the failure to respond quickly and effectively to changing market requirements could cause our business and operating results to decline. The wireless networking market is characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. In order to 19 Table of Contents deliver a competitive wireless LAN, our virtualized wireless LAN solution must be capable of operating with an ever increasing array of wireless devices and an increasingly complex network environment. In addition, our products are designed to be compatible with industry standards for communications over wireless networks. As new wireless devices are introduced and standards in the wireless networking market evolve, we may be required to modify our products and services to make them compatible with these new products and standards. Likewise, if our competitors introduce new products and services that compete with ours, we may be required to reposition our product and service offerings or introduce new products and services in response to such competitive pressure. For example, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, or IEEE, is expected to approve a new standard, IEEE 802.11ac, in 2013. This is a major upgrade of IEEE 802.11 technologies that is designed to enable very high throughput operation for stations in Wi-Fi networks. We are actively working on developing IEEE 802-11ac solutions with our silicon partners. We may not be successful in modifying our current products or introducing new ones in a timely or appropriately responsive manner, or at all. If we fail to address these changes successfully, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We must increase market awareness of our brand and our solution and develop and expand our sales channels, and if we are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We must improve the market awareness of our brand and solution and expand our relationships with our channel partners in order to increase our revenues. We intend to continue to add personnel and to expend resources in our sales and marketing functions as we focus on expanding awareness of our brand and our solution, capitalizing on our market opportunities and increasing our sales. Further, we believe that we must continue to develop our relationships with new and existing channel partners to effectively and efficiently extend our geographic reach and market penetration. Our efforts to improve sales of our solution could result in a material increase in our sales and marketing expense and general and administrative expense, and there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. If we are unable to significantly increase the awareness of our brand and solution, expand our relationships with channel partners, or effectively manage the costs associated with these efforts, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We compete in highly competitive markets, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may harm our business and operating results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and influenced by the following competitive factors: •performance, reliability and predictability of wireless networking solutions; •initial price and total cost of ownership; •comprehensiveness of the solution; •ability to provide quality customer service and support; •interoperability with other devices; •scalability of solution; •ability to provide secure mobile access to the network; and •ability to bundle wireless products with other networking offerings. We expect competition to intensify in the future as other companies introduce new products into our markets. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, 20 Table of Contents increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial condition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material and adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. A number of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily and develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we. Our competitors with larger volumes of orders and more diverse product offerings may require our VARs and distributors to stop selling our products, or to reduce their efforts to sell our products, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, more diverse product offerings and may be able to bundle wireless products with other networking offerings. Potential customers may prefer to purchase all of their equipment from a single provider, or may prefer to purchase wireless networking products from an existing supplier rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. We expect increased competition if our market continues to expand. Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or other factors. In addition, current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources, such as Motorola's acquisition of Symbol Technologies, Hewlett-Packard's acquisition of Colubris Networks and Juniper Networks' acquisition of Trapeze Networks. As a result of such acquisitions, our current or potential competitors might take advantage of the greater resources of the larger organization to compete with us. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers' perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized wireless networking companies and, consequently, customers' willingness to purchase from such companies. If we are unable to hire, integrate and retain qualified personnel, our business will suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled personnel. Our inability to attract, integrate or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly in engineering and sales, may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for highly skilled personnel is frequently intense, especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for highly-skilled personnel, including the San Francisco Bay Area and India. We may not be successful in attracting qualified personnel to fulfill our current or future needs. If we cannot effectively integrate and retain key employees, the execution of our business strategy may be significantly delayed or adversely impacted. During 2011, we hired a senior vice president to run our worldwide sales, service and support organization, a senior vice president to run our engineering organization and a senior vice president to run our marketing organization. Dr. Vaduvur Bharghavan, our Chief Technology Officer, transitioned from his day to day role as Meru's Chief Technology Officer and Ihab Abu-Hakima, our Chief Executive Officer, informed us of his determination to transition his role with our Company to new leadership. We have commenced a search for a new Chief Executive Officer. Our success in the subsequent periods will depend a significant part on our ability to recruit new executives and integrate them into our operations and their ability to enhance and implement our operations and strategy. Often, significant amounts of time and resources are required to train technical, sales and other personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand. We are currently increasing our investment in field 21 Table of Contents sales personnel and we have no assurance that they will become fully productive in the time periods anticipated. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain them, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, and we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business would suffer. Except for the transitional employment agreement we signed with Ihab Abu-Hakima, our Chief Executive Officer, no other employees have employment agreements for specific terms, and any of our employees may terminate their employment at any time. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Many of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. The loss of services of key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our strategy to rapidly increase our investments in sales and marketing programs and personnel may not generate the revenue increases anticipated or such revenue increases may only be realized over a longer period than currently expected. Since early 2011, we substantially expanded our field sales organization to provide improved coverage of the growing number of business opportunities in our target markets, approximately doubling our sales headcount by early 2012. We expect to continue to grow sales headcount, though at a reduced rate, in 2012. Significant ongoing efforts have been and are being made in training and on-boarding activities to assist new sales teams to become productive in a relatively short period of time. In addition, in late 2011 we made a variety of investments in marketing programs to complement the expansion of our field sales headcount. Market awareness of our capabilities and products is essential to our continued growth and our success in all of our markets. If our marketing programs are not successful in creating market awareness of our company and products or the timing and degree of increased revenues resulting from our increased sales and marketing efforts does not meet our expectations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer materially, and we will not be able to achieve sustained growth. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Third parties, including some of our competitors, have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. For example: •On May 11, 2010, Extricom Ltd., filed suit against us in the Federal District Court of Delaware asserting infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,697,549. Also on May 11, 2010, we filed a declaratory relief action against Extricom Ltd. in the Federal District Court for Northern California seeking a declaration that we are not infringing the Extricom Ltd. patent and that the patent is invalid. Our declaratory relief action in the Northern District of California was 22 Table of Contents dismissed by the Court on August 31, 2010 in favor of the Delaware action on the ground that Extricom Ltd. filed its suit in the Federal District Court of Delaware first. On December 30, 2011, we filed a renewed motion to transfer this case to the Northern District of California in light of the recent Federal Circuit decision in In re Link_A_Media Devices Corp., 2011 WL 6004566 (Fed. Cir. Dec. 2, 2011). The previous motion to transfer was denied on October 12, 2011. Fact discovery was opened on March 2, 2011, and trial is scheduled to commence on November 12, 2012. The Extricom Ltd. complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief. During March 2012, our settlement negotiations with Extricom Ltd., progressed, and as of March 15, 2012, the parties are discussing the form, terms and conditions of a potential license and settlement agreement with the expectation that a payment of approximately $2.3 million will be made to Extricom Ltd., if mutually agreeable terms and conditions can be reached. Given the remaining uncertainties, we are unable to allocate the expected payment to any of the elements in the potential license and settlement agreement, and as such, have not adjusted our consolidated financial statements. •In October 2010, a complaint was filed by Eon Corp. IP Holdings LLC against us as well as numerous other defendants, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. The complaint alleges infringement by the defendants of U.S. Patent 5,592,491. Our initial attempts at informally resolving the action were unsuccessful. On January 11, 2011, Eon filed an amended complaint, adding, among other things, additional defendants. On March 7, 2011, we answered the complaint, alleging that the EON patents are not infringed and are invalid. No settlement conferences or mediations have been scheduled. On January 9, 2012, the Texas court transferred the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. At this time, we are unable to determine the outcome of this matter and, accordingly, cannot estimate the potential financial impact this action could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. •On June 2, 2011, the United States International Trade Commission instituted a Section 337 Investigation, based on allegations that Linex Technologies, Inc.'s U.S. Patents relating to multiple-input-multiple-output technology are infringed by 802.11n products imported and sold by us—as well as by Hewlett-Packard, Apple, Aruba Networks, and Ruckus Wireless. We and our co-respondents are currently in the expert discovery phase of the Section 337 Investigation. A second settlement conference was held on March 5, 2012, but no resolution was reached. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute, we intend to defend the suit vigorously. At this time, we are unable to determine the outcome of this matter and, accordingly, cannot estimate the potential financial impact this action could have on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial position. Additionally, we received letters from, and had ongoing discussions with Motorola, one of our competitors who has a large patent portfolio and substantial resources alleging that our products infringe upon certain of its patents. Those negotiations ultimately resulted in us entering into a cross license with Motorola under which we agreed to pay Motorola $7.3 million, which was paid out during the quarter ended September 30, 2011. We do not believe this license agreement will provide future value as we do not plan to utilize the underlying technology in any future product development or sales. Third parties have from time to time claimed, and others may claim in the future, that we have infringed their past, current or future intellectual property rights. These claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, require expensive changes to our products or could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, if available. As a result, these claims could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As our business expands and the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, we expect that infringement claims may increase in number and significance. 23 Table of Contents Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. In addition, we currently have a limited portfolio of issued patents compared to our major competitors, and therefore may not be able to effectively utilize our intellectual property portfolio to assert defenses or counterclaims in response to patent infringement claims or litigation brought against us by third parties. Further, litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant products revenues and against whom our potential patents may provide little or no deterrence, and many of potential litigants have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. We might also be required to seek a license and pay royalties for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. In addition, much of our business relies on, and many of our products incorporate, proprietary technologies of third parties. We may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms, and such licensing may increase our exposure to claims of infringement by other third parties. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries. These protections may not be available in all cases or may be inadequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. For example, the laws of India, where we conduct significant research and development activities, do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent, or superior, to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property. We have a limited patent portfolio. To date, we have not applied for patent protection outside of the U.S. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: •current or future U.S. or future foreign patent applications will be approved; •our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third parties; 24 Table of Contents •we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; •the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or •others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. The failure to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or the invalidation or our patents, or our inability to protect any of our intellectual property, may weaken our competitive position and may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If the demand for wireless networks does not continue to develop as we anticipate, demand for our virtualized wireless LAN solution may not grow as we expect. The success of our business depends on enterprises continuing to adopt wireless networks for use with their business-critical applications. The market for enterprise-wide wireless networks has only developed in recent years as enterprises have deployed wireless networks to take advantage of the convenient access to the network that they provide. As businesses seek to run their business-critical applications on these wireless networks, they recognize the limitations of other wireless solutions and the need for our virtualized wireless LAN solution. Ultimately, however, enterprises may not elect to deploy wireless networks and may not elect to run their business-critical applications on a wireless network. Accordingly, demand for our solution may not continue to develop as we anticipate, or at all. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our virtualized wireless LAN solution, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achievable by organizations deploying our solution. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products but also those of our competitors and can result in a lengthy sales cycle. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, purchases of our virtualized wireless LAN solution are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues may decline as a result of changes in public funding of educational institutions. We have historically generated a substantial portion of our revenues from sales to educational institutions. Public schools receive funding from local tax revenue, and from state and federal governments through a variety of programs, many of which seek to assist schools located in underprivileged or rural areas. We believe that the funding for a substantial portion of our sales to educational institutions comes from federal funding, in particular the E-Rate program. E-Rate is a program of the Federal Communications Commission that subsidizes the purchase of approved telecommunications, Internet access, and internal connections costs for eligible public educational institutions. In the event that the federal government reduces the amounts dedicated to the E-Rate 25 Table of Contents program in future periods, or eliminates the program completely, our sales to educational institutions may be reduced. Furthermore, if state or local funding of public education is significantly reduced because of legislative changes or by fluctuations in tax revenues due to changing economic conditions, our sales to educational institutions may be negatively impacted. Any reduction in spending on information technology systems by educational institutions would likely materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our operating results. We believe that there can be significant seasonal factors that may cause the first and third quarters of our fiscal year to have relatively weaker products revenues than the second and fourth fiscal quarters. We believe that this seasonality results from a number of factors, including: •customers with a December 31 fiscal year end may choose to spend remaining budgets before their year end resulting in a positive impact on our products revenues in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year; •the structure of our direct sales compensation program may provide additional financial incentives to our sales personnel for exceeding their annual goals; •the timing of our annual training for the entire sales force in our first fiscal quarter combined with the above fourth quarter factors can potentially cause our first fiscal quarter to be seasonally weak; •many of our education customers have procurement and deployment cycles that can result in stronger order flow in our second fiscal quarter than other quarters assuming the continued availability of traditional funding sources, such as the E-Rate program in the United States; and •seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in the United States, Europe and certain other regions may have a negative impact on our third quarter revenues. We believe that our historical growth, variations in the amount of orders booked in a prior quarter but not shipped until a later quarter and other variations in the amount of deferred revenues may have overshadowed the nature or magnitude of seasonal or cyclical factors that might have influenced our business to date. In addition, the timing of one or more large transactions may overshadow seasonal factors in any particular quarterly period. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our operations may become more pronounced over time and may materially affect our results of operations in the future. The average sales prices of our products may decrease. The average sales prices for our products may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, a change in our mix of products, anticipation of the introduction of new products or promotional programs. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and we expect this competition to increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product offerings may reduce the price of products that compete with ours in order to promote the sale of other products or may bundle them with other products. For example, some of our large competitors who provide network switching equipment may offer a wireless overlay network at very low prices or on a bundled basis. Furthermore, average sales prices for our products have typically decreased over product life cycles. A decline in our average selling prices in excess of our expectations may harm our operating results. We expect our gross margin to vary over time, and our level of gross margin may not be sustainable. Our level of gross margin may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: •increased price competition; 26 Table of Contents •changes in customer or product and service mix; •introduction of new products; •our ability to reduce production costs; •increases in material or labor costs; •increased costs of licensing third party technologies that are used in our products; •excess inventory, inventory holding charges and obsolescence charges; •the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; •changes in our distribution channels or with our channel sales partners; •increased warranty costs; and •inbound shipping charges. As a result of any of these factors, or other factors, our gross margin may be adversely affected, which in turn would harm our operating results. We rely on channel partners to generate a substantial majority of our revenues. If our partners fail to perform, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. A substantial majority of our revenues is generated through sales by our channel partners, which are distributors and VARs. Sales through our channel partners accounted for 93% of our total shipments during the year ended December 31, 2011. To the extent our channel partners are unsuccessful in selling our products, or we are unable to obtain and retain a sufficient number of high-quality channel partners, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Westcon Group and Catalyst Telecom distribute a significant amount of our products worldwide. Resale of product through Westcon Group and Catalyst Telecom accounted for 42%, 46% and 35% of our worldwide net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our channel partners may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services. They may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such products. They may have incentives to promote our competitors' products in lieu of our products, particularly for our competitors with larger volumes of orders, more diverse product offerings and a longer relationship with our VARs or distributors. In these cases, our channel partners may stop selling our products completely. New sales channel partners may take several months or more to achieve significant sales. Our channel partner sales structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresents the functionality of our products or services to customers, violate laws or our corporate policies. If we fail to effectively manage our existing or future sales channel partners, our business would be seriously harmed. We base our inventory purchase decisions on our forecasts of customers' demand, and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our operating results could be materially harmed. We place orders with our manufacturers based on our forecasts of our customers' demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates affecting our ability to service our customers. When demand for our products increases significantly, we may not be able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we may need to expend a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations, or we may incur additional costs in order to rush the manufacture and delivery of additional inventory. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and 27 Table of Contents damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may purchase more inventory than we are able to sell when we expect to or at all. As a result, we could have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our operating results. Our virtualized wireless LAN solution incorporates complex technology and may contain defects or errors, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our virtualized wireless LAN solution incorporates complex technology and must operate with a significant number and types of wireless devices, which attempt to run new and complex applications in a variety of environments that utilize different wireless communication industry standards. Our products have contained and may in the future contain defects or errors. In some cases, these defects or errors have delayed the introduction of our new products. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. These issues are most prevalent when new products are introduced into the market. Any errors or defects discovered in our products, after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. If we fail to develop new products and enhancements to our virtualized wireless LAN solution, we may not be able to remain competitive. We must develop new products and continue to enhance our virtualized wireless LAN solution to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. If we fail to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce products with enhanced functionality. In addition, as new mobile applications are introduced, our success may depend on our ability to provide a solution that supports these applications. We are subject to a number of industry standards established by various standards bodies, such as the IEEE, and we design our products to comply with these standards. As new industry standards emerge, we could be required to invest a substantial amount of resources to develop new products that comply with these standards. For example, we devoted a substantial amount of our research and development resources to design a virtualized wireless LAN solution that could optimize the performance allowed by the 802.11n standard. In addition, the IEEE is expected to approve a new standard, IEEE 802.11ac, in 2013. This is a major upgrade of IEEE 802.11 technologies that is designed to enable very high throughput operation for stations in Wi-Fi networks. We are actively working on developing IEEE 802-11ac solutions with our silicon partners. If we are not able to adapt to new or changing standards that are ratified by the IEEE or other standards bodies, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected and we may not realize the benefits of our research and development efforts. Our research and development efforts relating to new products and technologies are time-consuming, costly and complex. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of products that are competitive in the marketplace, this could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 28 Table of Contents Although certain technical problems experienced by users may not be caused by our virtualized wireless LAN solution, our business and reputation may be harmed if users perceive our solution as the cause of a slow or unreliable network connection. Our solution has been deployed in many different environments and is capable of providing wireless access to many different types of wireless devices operating a variety of applications. The ability of our virtualized wireless LAN solution to operate effectively can be negatively impacted by many different elements unrelated to our products. For example, a user's experience may suffer from an incorrect setting in a wireless device, which is not a problem caused by the network. Although certain technical problems experienced by users may not be caused by our solution, users often perceive the underlying cause to be a result of poor performance of the wireless network. This perception, even if incorrect, could harm our business and reputation. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers outside the U.S. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 45%, 36% and 28% of our revenues were derived from customers outside of the U.S. While our international sales have typically been denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales or profitability in that country. In addition, we have a research and development facility located in India, and we expect to expand our offshore development efforts and general and administrative functions within India and possibly in other countries. We have sales and support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: •the difficulty of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; •difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; •tariffs and trade barriers, export regulations and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; •increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; •heightened exposure to political and economic instability, war and terrorism; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •costs of compliance with, and the risks and costs of non-compliance with, differing and changing regulatory and legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate; •heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, and irregularities in, financial statements; •multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; •the need to localize our products for international customers; and •increased cost of terminating employees in some countries. 29 Table of Contents As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Another significant risk resulting from our international operations is compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, agents and other channel partners, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our product and service sales may be subject to foreign governmental regulations, which vary substantially from country to country and change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. Further, in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. Although we implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our use of and reliance on research and development resources in India may expose us to unanticipated costs or events. We have a significant research and development center in Bangalore, India and, in recent years, have increased headcount and development activity at this facility. There is no assurance that our reliance upon research and development resources in India will enable us to achieve meaningful cost reductions or greater resource efficiency. Further, our research and development efforts and other operations in India involve significant risks, including: •difficulty hiring and retaining appropriate engineering personnel due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; •the knowledge transfer related to our technology and resulting exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property or information that is proprietary to us, our customers and other third parties; •heightened exposure to change in the economic, security and political conditions in India; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates and regulatory compliance in India; and •interruptions to our operations in India as a result of floods and other natural catastrophic events as well as manmade problems such as power disruptions or terrorism. Difficulties resulting from the factors above and other risks related to our operations in India could expose us to increased expense, impair our development efforts and harm our competitive position. 30 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, and depend on them for the supply and quality of our products. We outsource the manufacturing of our products, and are therefore subject to the risk that our third-party manufacturers do not provide our customers with the quality and performance that they expect from our products. Our orders may represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by our manufacturers from their customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event our manufacturers are constrained in their ability to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. We must also accurately predict the number of products that we will require. If we overestimate our requirements, our manufacturers may assess charges, or we may incur liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, if we underestimate our requirements, our manufacturers may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products. This could result in an interruption of the manufacturing of our products, delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues. Quality or performance failures of our products or changes in our manufacturers' financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. Some of the components and technologies used in our products are purchased and licensed from a single source or a limited number of sources. The loss of any of these suppliers may cause us to incur additional transition costs, result in delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our products, or cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory and could cause us to redesign our products. While supplies of our components are generally available from a variety of sources, we currently depend on a single source or limited number of sources for several components for our products. For example, the chipsets that we use in our products are currently available only from a limited number of sources, with whom neither we nor our manufacturers have entered into supply agreements. We have also entered into license agreements with some of our suppliers for technologies that are used in our products, and the termination of these licenses, which can generally be done on relatively short notice, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, our access points incorporate certain technology that we license from Atheros Communications, Inc., or Atheros. We have entered into a license agreement with Atheros, and such license agreement automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless the agreement is terminated prior to the end of the then-current term. In the event our license agreement with Atheros is terminated, we would be required to redesign some of our products in order to incorporate technology from alternative sources, and any such termination of the license agreement and redesign of certain of our products could require additional licenses and materially and adversely affect our business. As there are no other sources identical to these components and technologies, if we lost any of these suppliers, we could be required to transition to a new supplier, which could increase our costs, result in delays in the manufacturing and delivery of our products or cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory, and we could be required to redesign our hardware and software in order to incorporate components or technologies from alternative sources. In addition, for certain components for which there are multiple sources, we are still subject to potential price increases and limited availability due to market demand for such components. In the past, unexpected demand for communication products caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts. If such shortages occur in the future, our business would be adversely affected. We carry very little inventory of our products, and we and our manufacturers rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components in a timely manner. We and our manufacturers rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with these suppliers, and as a result, even if available, we or our manufacturers may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner and, therefore, may not be able to meet customer demands for our products, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents We rely on a third party for the fulfillment of our customer orders, and the failure of this third party to perform could have an adverse effect upon our reputation and our ability to distribute our products, which could cause a material reduction in our revenues. We use a third party to hold our inventory and fulfill our customer orders. If our third-party fulfillment agent fails to perform, our ability to deliver our products and to generate revenues would be adversely affected. The failure of our third-party logistics provider to deliver products in a timely manner could lead to the dissatisfaction of our channel partners and customers and damage our reputation, which may cause our channel partners or customers to cancel existing agreements with us and to stop doing business with us. In addition, this reliance on a third-party logistics provider also may impact the timing of our revenue recognition if our logistics provider fails to deliver orders during the prescribed time period. Although we believe that alternative logistics providers are readily available in the market, in the event we are unexpectedly forced to change providers we could experience short-term disruptions in our delivery and fulfillment process that could adversely affect our business. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality support and services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Once our products are deployed within our customers' networks, they depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the continued successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, or provide effective ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure or the failure of our channel partners to maintain high-quality support and services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We completed our first acquisition, that of Identity Networks, in 2011. In the future we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or such acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. We may also face additional challenges, because acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: •difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, technologies, personnel and/or products; •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition transaction; •the diversion of management's attention from the regular operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations; •adverse effects on new and existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering geographic or business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; •the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; 32 Table of Contents •an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of products and services from either company; and •delays in realizing or failure to realize the benefits of an acquisition. Competition within our industry for acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets and product lines has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As such, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or because the target is acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could: •issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders' percentage ownership; •incur substantial debt; •incur significant acquisition-related expenses; •assume contingent liabilities; or •expend significant cash. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Any difficulties in the implementation of these pronouncements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below market expectations, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, valuation of inventory, fair value of financial instruments, allowance for doubtful accounts, and accounting for income taxes. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products incorporate encryption technology and are subject to United States export controls, and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. In addition, we have implemented limited procedures to ensure our compliance with export regulations, and if our export compliance procedures are not effective, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could lead to a material fine or sanction that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. Our products contain software modules licensed for use from third-party authors under open source licenses, including the GNU Public License, the GNU Lesser Public License, the Apache License and others. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This could allow our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales for us. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not appropriately manage any future growth, or are unable to improve our systems and processes, our operating results could be negatively affected. Our future growth, if it occurs, could place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. We may need to increasingly rely on IT systems, some of which we do not currently have significant experience in operating, to help manage critical functions. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. We may not be able to successfully implement 34 Table of Contents improvements to these systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in additional operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results may be negatively impacted. In addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenues, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. Any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination within our organization. Failure to manage any future growth effectively could result in increased costs and harm our business. Our business, operating results and growth rates may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic or market conditions. Our business depends on the overall demand for IT and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. Our current business and operating plan assumes that economic activity in general, and IT spending in particular, will at least remain at close to current levels. We cannot be assured of the level of IT spending, however, the deterioration of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth rates. The purchase of our products involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources, therefore, weak economic conditions, or a reduction in IT spending, even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, and reduced unit sales. For example, we believe that the recent economic downturns in the U.S. and international markets adversely affected our business as customers and potential customers reduced costs by reducing or delaying purchasing decisions. Any unfavorable economic or market conditions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our VARs, distributors and customers, which could result in material losses and negatively impact our operating results. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the U.S. and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the U.S. If any of our VARs, distributors or customers becomes insolvent or suffers a deterioration in its financial or business condition and is unable to pay for our products, our results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and if we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our net operating losses may also be impaired under state law. We may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs. 35 Table of Contents Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by the following: •earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •expiration of, or lapses in, the research and development tax credit laws; •transfer pricing adjustments including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; •tax effects of nondeductible compensation; •tax costs related to intercompany realignments; •changes in accounting principles; or •changes in tax laws and regulations including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. The outcomes from these examinations may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. New regulations or changes in existing regulations related to our products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Our products are subject to governmental regulations in a variety of jurisdictions. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, radio emissions are subject to regulation in the U.S. and in other countries in which we do business. In the U.S., various federal agencies including the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies have promulgated regulations that concern the use of radio/electromagnetic emissions standards. Member countries of the European Union have enacted similar standards concerning electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility and emissions standards. In addition, our wireless communication products operate through the transmission of radio signals. Currently, operation of these products in specified frequency bands does not require licensing by regulatory authorities. Regulatory changes restricting the use of frequency bands or allocating 36 Table of Contents available frequencies could become more burdensome and could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as power disruptions or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. We also have significant research and development activities in India and facilities in Japan, regions known for typhoons, floods and other natural disasters. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, occurring at our headquarters, our other facilities or where our ODMs and channel partners are located, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our or our customers' businesses or the economy as a whole. We also rely on information technology systems to communicate among our workforce located worldwide, and in particular, our research and development activities that are coordinated between our corporate headquarters in the San Francisco Bay Area and our facility in India. Any disruption to our internal communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by manmade problems, such as power disruptions, could delay our research and development efforts. To the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, our research and development efforts or the deployment of our products, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC's rules and forms. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Further, weaknesses in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our periodic reports filed with the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources and provide significant management oversight, which involve substantial accounting-related costs. Any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, or consequent 37 Table of Contents inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In the event that we are not able to continue to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, that our internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. We have not yet implemented a complete disaster recovery plan or business continuity plan for our accounting and related information technology systems. Any disaster could therefore materially impair our ability to maintain timely accounting and reporting. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. Further, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •actual or anticipated variation in anticipated results of operations of us or our competitors; •the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products, new or terminated significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •additional dilution to our existing shareholders due to new financing activities; •failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; •developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; •commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; •announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; •changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, such as the continuing volatility in the financial markets; •rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; •any major change in our management; •general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and •other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating 38 Table of Contents performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock or do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more equity research analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Further, securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of February 29, 2012, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 35% of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The lock-up agreements with directors and officers, and holders of substantially all of our outstanding equity securities expired in September of 2010. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 17.7 million shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. At that date, we had approximately 4.0 million shares of our common stock that will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent exercised and permitted by the provisions of various stock plans and vesting agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The weighted-average exercise price for options was $9.04 per share as of December 31, 2011. In addition, warrants to purchase 2.7 million shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $10.76 per share had not been exercised and were still outstanding as of December 31, 2011. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, have contractual restrictions against paying cash dividends and currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 39 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate or incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following: •the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval; •stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent; •advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; •allowing only our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and •supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 