D. RISK FACTORS If the events discussed in these Risk Factors occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In such a case, the market price of our common shares could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones that may exist. Additional risks not currently known by us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 9 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Resources devoted to research and development may not yield new products that achieve commercial success. We devote substantial resources to research and development. The research and development process is expensive, prolonged and entails considerable uncertainty. Development of a new product, from discovery through testing and registration to initial product launch, typically takes between eight and fifteen years or more for a pharmaceutical product and three and seven years or more for a medical device. Each of these periods varies considerably from product to product and country to country. Because of the complexities and uncertainties associated with ophthalmic research and development, products we are currently developing may not complete the development process or obtain the regulatory approvals required for us to market such products successfully. For example, we are investing substantial sums in the research and development of new treatments for age-related macular degeneration ("AMD"), a condition in which the retina degenerates, thereby reducing sight. These may take longer and cost more to develop and may be less successful than we currently anticipate, or than other therapies that are presently or soon may be on the market. We can make no assurances that any of the products currently in our development pipeline will be commercially successful. If we fail to keep pace with advances in our industry or fail to persuade physicians to adopt new products we introduce, customers may not buy our products and our sales and profits may decline. The ophthalmic industry is characterized by continual product development, constant innovation in products and techniques, frequent new product introductions and price competition. Companies that introduce products that are first to market gain a significant competitive advantage. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products which are more effective in treating diseases and disorders of the eye or that incorporate the latest technologies. In addition, we must be able to manufacture and effectively market those products and persuade a sufficient number of eye care professionals to use the new products we introduce. For example, glaucoma requires ongoing treatment over a long period of time; thus, many doctors are reluctant to switch a patient to a new treatment if the patient's current treatment for glaucoma remains effective. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced by one of our competitors or if we announce a new product that, in either case, represents a substantial improvement over our existing products. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products. We may not successfully develop and launch replacements for our products that lose patent protection. Most of our products are covered by patents that give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to charge a lower price in order to maintain sales of our products which could result in these products becoming less profitable. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits with respect to those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire. Economic conditions and price competition may cause sales of our products used in elective surgical procedures to decline and reduce our profitability. Sales of products used in elective surgical procedures have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by economic conditions. Generally, the costs of elective surgical procedures are borne by individuals without reimbursement from their medical insurance providers or government programs. Accordingly, individuals may be less willing to incur the costs of these procedures in weak or uncertain economic conditions and there may be a decline in the number of these procedures. Sales of our laser refractive surgical equipment worldwide and our revenues from technology fees in the United States have come under pressure and may remain under pressure if uncertain economic conditions persist or if the pricing environment for technology fees does not improve. A softening in demand for laser refractive surgery could also impact us by reducing our profits as customers to whom we have leased, or have extended financing for the purchase of, laser refractive surgical equipment are unable to make required payments to us. The United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and other regulators may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which would reduce the profitability of our prescription products. Managed care organizations have petitioned the FDA to permit sales of some pharmaceuticals currently sold on a 10 prescription basis, including anti-allergy medications, without a prescription. In late 2002, the FDA revised the status of Claritin® (Schering-Plough) from "prescription only" to "over-the-counter," or "OTC", following such a petition, although the sponsor ultimately sought the change in status. The FDA may also undertake "OTC switching" on its own initiative. Approval by the FDA of the sale of these products without a prescription would reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. Medicines regulators in other jurisdictions have similar powers to authorize OTC switches, either on their own initiative or in response to an approval-holder’s request. In the future, additional managed care organizations or other third-party payors may petition the FDA or other medicines regulators to permit sales of some of our pharmaceutical products on a non-prescription basis, which could reduce our profits. Failure of users of our products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors could limit market acceptance of our products, which could impact our sales and profits. The initiatives of managed care organizations and governments to contain health care costs in the United States and in other countries are placing an increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. This emphasis could adversely affect sales and prices of our products. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase our products if they do not receive reimbursement for the cost of our pharmaceutical and surgical products and for procedures performed using our surgical medical device products from third-party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid and health insurance programs, both governmental and private. For example: • major third-party payors for hospital services, including government insurance plans, Medicare, Medicaid and private health care insurers, have substantially revised their payment methodologies during the last few years, resulting in stricter standards for and lower levels of reimbursement of hospital and outpatient charges for some medical procedures, including cataract procedures and intraocular lenses; • most European Union member states impose controls on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under state health care schemes; because of increased pressures to reduce government health care spending and increased transparency of prices following the adoption of the euro, member governments in some countries in the European Union are requesting price reductions to match prices charged in other countries in the European Union; furthermore, with increased price transparency, parallel importation of pharmaceuticals from lower price level countries to higher priced markets has grown; these parallel imports lower our effective average selling price; • Japan also imposes controls on the prices at which medicines and medical devices are reimbursed under the national health care schemes; because of increased pressures to reduce government health care spending, the government continues to seek cuts where possible, and is actively promoting the use of generic products; • managed care organizations restrict the pharmaceutical products that doctors in those organizations can prescribe through the use of formularies, the lists of drugs which physicians are permitted to prescribe to patients in a managed care organization, and a failure of our pharmaceutical products to be included on formularies could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profits; • competitors may introduce generic products that compete directly or indirectly with our products and such generic products may reduce our unit sales and prices; • there are proposed and existing laws and regulations governing product prices and the profitability of companies in the health care industry; and • there have been recent initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products which could affect our profitability. Reductions in the prices for our products in response to these trends could reduce our profits. Moreover, our products may not be covered in the future by third-party payors. The failure of our products to be so covered could cause our profits to decline. In addition, on January 27, 2006, The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("Medicare Agency") created a new class of New Technology Intraocular Lenses ("NTIOL") defined by Reduced Spherical Aberration. Approval of this NTIOL class provides ambulatory surgery centers with an additional $50 per Medicare cataract procedure for using a lens in this class. Certain lens models of a competitor were included in this new NTIOL class. We are taking steps to pursue NTIOL reimbursement within the spherical aberration reducing intraocular lens class. Under the process defined by the Medicare Agency, the agency will complete their internal review of our request within 30 days after formal submission. We believe 11 our AcrySof® IQ intraocular lens meets the requirements of this new NTIOL category. If we are unsuccessful in gaining NTIOL classification for the AcrySof® IQ, we may be at a competitive disadvantage, as ambulatory surgery centers could have a financial motivation to use the competitor’s intraocular lenses to gain the $50 additional reimbursement for each cataract procedure covered by Medicare. We may experience pressure to lower the prices of some or all of our prescription pharmaceutical products because of new and/or proposed federal legislation. New U.S. federal legislation, enacted in December 2003, has added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, effective January 2006. In the interim, Congress established a discount drug card program for Medicare beneficiaries. Both benefits are provided primarily through private entities, which are attempting to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations increase pressures to lower prices. While the new law specifically prohibits the United States government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit the United States government to use its enormous purchasing power to negotiate discounts from pharmaceutical companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the new law contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include certain limitations on prescription drug prices. Furthermore, in many other countries medical reimbursement is regulated by government agencies. These agencies may reduce the medical reimbursement rates, leading to downward pressure on the prices we receive for our products. Changes in inventory levels or fluctuations in buying patterns by our large wholesale customers may adversely affect our sales and earnings. We also face additional price risks due to the concentration of certain sales with large wholesale customers. A significant portion of our pharmaceutical and eye care products are sold to major pharmaceutical and health care distributors and major retail chains in the United States. Consequently, our sales and quarterly growth comparisons may be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of major distributors, retail chains and other trade buyers. These fluctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesalers’ buying decisions or other factors. Additionally, we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk to these customers that, if affected by financial difficulty, could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The consolidation of wholesale customers could further increase pricing and competitive pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. Wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical and consumer eye care products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Consolidation of drug wholesalers has led to and may further increase pricing and competitive pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesaler purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. We can provide no assurance that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. The global nature of our business may result in fluctuations and declines in our sales and profits. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries. We have more than 75 local operations worldwide and almost half of our revenues in 2005 came from customers outside of the United States. The results of operations and the financial position of our local operations are generally reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to translation risk. In 2005, our most significant currency exposures were to the euro, the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc versus the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates between these and other foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. In addition, we are exposed to transaction risk because some of our expenses are incurred in a different currency from the currency in which our revenues are received. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies have had in the past, and may have in the future, a material adverse effect on our operating margins and profitability. 12 Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and local customs vary widely among the countries in which we sell our products. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including lower product margins, less stringent protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in countries in which we operate, especially in emerging markets. Our continued success as a global company depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in anticipating and managing these and other risks in the countries where we do business. These and other risks may have a material adverse effect on our operations in any particular country and on our business as a whole. For example, many emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, in response to which we may reduce our prices, making our products less profitable. Inflation in emerging markets also makes our products less profitable and increases the credit risks to which we are exposed. We have experienced currency fluctuations, inflation and volatile economic conditions, which have impacted our profitability in the past in several markets, including Argentina, Brazil and Turkey, and we may experience such impacts in the future. During the past year, the economy of Japan, our second largest market, has shown recovery. Because a majority of our sales in Japan are to parties who are reimbursed by the government, however, the continued growth in government deficits and an aging population have led to downward pricing pressures on government reimbursement rates for our products. In recent years, the Japanese Ministry of Health reduced procedure reimbursements for cataract surgery and reimbursements for some pharmaceuticals. This put pressure on the prices of our products in Japan. We single source many of the active ingredients and components used in our products and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. We single source active ingredients contained in a majority of our pharmaceutical and contact lens care products, including Travatan® ophthalmic solution, OPTI-FREE® EXPRESS® No Rub® and OPTI-FREE® RepleniSH™ contact lens care solutions, Systane® lubricant eye drops, Patanol® ophthalmic solution and Vigamox® ophthalmic solution. In these cases, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, including from the FDA, to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy process. In many cases, we use single-source suppliers for other components and raw materials used in our products. The loss of any of these or other significant suppliers or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications, requested quantities or delivery schedules could cause our sales and profitability to decline and have a negative impact on our customer relations. In addition, a significant price increase from any of our single-source suppliers could cause our profitability to decline if we cannot increase our prices to our customers. In order to ensure sufficient supply, we may determine that we need to provide financing to some of our single-source suppliers, which could increase our financial exposure to those suppliers. (Vigamox® is licensed to Alcon by Bayer AG.) In many cases, we manufacture a product at a single-source facility, and an inability to produce a sufficient quantity of, or any disruption in the manufacturing of, a product at the relevant facility could impair our ability to fill customer orders and could reduce our sales. In many cases, we manufacture a product, including some of our key products, at a single-source manufacturing facility. Regulatory approvals of our products are generally limited to a specific approved manufacturing facility. If we fail to produce enough of a product at a facility, or if our manufacturing process at that facility is disrupted, we may be unable to deliver that product to our customers on a timely basis. A failure to deliver products on a timely basis could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Significant delays in the delivery of our products or a delay in the delivery of a key product could also negatively impact our sales and profitability. Some of our products are manufactured or assembled by third parties under contract. Business conditions and regulatory actions may lead to recalls of products assembled or manufactured by these companies, may result in delays in shipments of such products or may cause these contractors to abandon their contract manufacturing agreements. Any of these occurrences could have a negative impact on sales and profitability. We depend on proprietary technologies. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately and are currently subject to at least four claims of infringement of intellectual property. Furthermore, a U.S. District Court in Delaware has ruled against us, awarding significant damages to a competitor. We currently hold more than 4,000 patents and have approximately 2,000 pending patent applications. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrecy laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our technology. These legal measures afford limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from gaining access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. From time to time, we have faced challenges of our 13 intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we cannot ensure that any pending patent application held by us will result in an issued patent or that, if patents are issued to us, such patents will provide meaningful protection against competitors or competitive technologies. We have taken measures to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expense, may reduce our profits and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of patents in our industry frequently involve complex legal issues that are not easily resolved. Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. ("AMO") filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court in Delaware. AMO claimed the Company infringed AMO’s U.S. Patent Nos. 5,700,240 and 6,059,765, challenging certain features of the Company’s Infiniti® vision system and the Advantec® and Everest™ software upgrades to its Legacy® cataract system. In the case, which was heard by a jury in 2005, AMO requested damages and a permanent injunction preventing the Company from selling its Infiniti® vision system with the current version of the FMS cassette. By an order entered December 16, 2005, the court ruled in favor of AMO and set damages at $213.9 million. In the final judgment entered January 20, 2006, the court also awarded AMO interim damages, prejudgment interest and reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. We are appealing the decision and believe we have multiple legal and factual grounds to support the appeal. We also have filed a motion for a new trial. Although the court granted AMO’s motion for an injunction, the court also granted our motion to stay the injunction pending the outcome of the appeal. Because the injunction was stayed by the court, we will be able to continue to sell and distribute Infiniti® vision systems and Infiniti® FMS cassettes during the appeals process. Under the court’s order, existing customers and customers who purchase or lease new Infiniti® vision systems while the appeal is pending will be able to use them for the life of the equipment without interruption or restriction. Due to the District Court’s final judgment, we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005 a provision of $240.0 million related to this litigation, although we will be appealing the decision. While this appeal is pending, we will continue to develop an alternative design of its Infiniti® FMS cassette, which management expects to have available in the first half of 2006. For additional information, see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so. Importation of products from Canada and other countries into the United States may lower the prices we receive for our products. In the United States and elsewhere, our products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada, Mexico, and other countries where there are government price controls or other market dynamics that make the products lower priced. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of regulatory harmonization and common market or trade initiatives, such as those underpinning the European Union, and the Internet. A significant influence in the United States is the expansion of pharmacies in Canada and elsewhere targeted to American purchasers, the increase in U.S.-based businesses affiliated with Canadian pharmacies marketing to American purchasers, state and local government initiatives and other factors. Most of these foreign imports into the United States are illegal under current law. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In addition, in December 2003, federal legislation was enacted to change United States import laws and expand the ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada and potentially elsewhere, where there are government price controls. These changes to the import laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. No Secretary of Health and Human Services has determined to date that there is a basis to make such a certification. However, it is possible that the current Secretary or a subsequent Secretary could make the certification in the 14 future. In addition, legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the import laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes to the import laws do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the Customs Service, and other government agencies. For example, state and local governments have suggested that they may import or facilitate the import of drugs from Canada for employees covered by state health plans or others, and some already have put such plans in place. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States and elsewhere. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to import products from abroad. We are subject to extensive government regulation that increases our costs and could prevent us from selling our products. The research, development, testing, manufacturing, sale and marketing of our products are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, marketing, promotion, record keeping, reporting, the sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products, import, export and samples and electronic records and electronic signatures. We are also subject to government regulation with respect to the prices we charge and the rebates we offer or pay to customers, including rebates paid to certain governmental entities. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product that we market and FDA approval or clearance for each medical device that we market, and additional approvals or clearances may be required for product changes. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed outside of the United States are also subject to government regulation, which may be equally or more demanding. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. If a regulatory authority delays approval of a potentially significant product, our market value and operating results may decline. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our products, we will not be able to market these products, which would result in a decrease in our sales. Currently, we are actively pursuing approval for a number of our products from regulatory authorities in a number of countries, including, among others, the United States, countries in the European Union and Japan. Continued growth in our sales and profits will depend, in part, on the timely and successful introduction and marketing of some or all of these products. The clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approvals are complex and expensive and their outcomes are uncertain. We incur substantial expense for, and devote significant time to, clinical trials, yet we cannot be certain that the trials will result in the commercial sale of a product. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in later clinical trials that form the basis of an application for regulatory approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials show promising results. Any of our products may produce undesirable side effects that could cause us or regulatory authorities or research sites to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a pharmaceutical or medical device candidate. We, the FDA or another regulatory authority or an institutional review board charged with overseeing the research to protect study subjects may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks. Noncompliance with applicable United States legal regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing approvals, recommendations by the FDA against governmental contracts and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device we manufacture or distribute. Regulatory authorities outside of the United States may impose similar sanctions for noncompliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with post-approval legal and regulatory requirements and our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Our manufacturing, sales, promotion, and other activities following product approval are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory and law enforcement authorities, including, in the United States, the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), the Department of Justice, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, and state and local governments. Any product for which we currently have or 15 may obtain marketing approval, along with the associated manufacturing processes, any post-approval clinical data that we might be required to collect and the advertising and promotional activities for the product, are subject to continual recordkeeping and reporting requirements, review and periodic inspections by regulatory authorities. Our advertising and promotion are subject to stringent regulatory rules and oversight. New requirements and industry guidelines have been adopted to require the posting of ongoing clinical trials on public registries, and the disclosure of designated clinical trial results. We must continually review adverse event and other available safety information that we receive concerning our products, and make expedited and periodic reports to regulatory authorities. In the United States, any free samples we distribute to physicians must be carefully monitored and controlled, and must otherwise comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, as amended, and FDA regulations. Our sales, marketing, research and other scientific/educational programs must also comply with anti-bribery rules and related laws, such as the anti-kickback and fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, as amended, the False Claims Act, as amended, the privacy provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and similar state laws. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid drug rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, and the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Most European Union member states and Japan impose controls and restrictions that are similar in nature or effect. In recent years, several states in the United States, including California, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Vermont and West Virginia, have also enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs and file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these applicable legal and regulatory requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, private "qui tam" actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including surgical equipment and instruments, involve an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. A recall of one of our products or a product manufactured by another manufacturer could impair sales of other similar products we market as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall. From time to time, we are named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, and although we believe we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future, including claims arising out of procedures performed using our surgical equipment. We historically have relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential product liability claims. The combination of our insurance coverage, cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy product liabilities we may incur in the future. Furthermore, since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase insurance coverage for this risk. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful product liability claims brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our activities involve hazardous materials and emissions and may subject us to environmental liability. Our manufacturing, research and development practices involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we have operations governing the use, manufacturing, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and certain waste products. Although we believe that our safety and environmental procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, 16 we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Remedial environmental actions could require us to incur substantial unexpected costs which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we were involved in a major environmental accident or found to be in substantial non-compliance with applicable environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines that could be material. We historically have relied on a combination of self-insurance and third-party insurance to cover potential environmental liability claims. The combination of our insurance coverage, cash flows and reserves may not be adequate to satisfy environmental liabilities we may incur in the future. Furthermore, since January 1, 2005, we no longer purchase insurance coverage for this risk. Any environmental claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees. Successful environmental liability claims brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Since early 2005, we self-insure through our captive insurance subsidiaries almost all of our property and casualty, business interruption and liability risks. We continue to insure fiduciary liability and directors and officers liability risks with third party insurers. The pharmaceutical and medical device business involves an inherent risk of product liability and any claims of this type could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, we have all of the risks for property and casualty, general liability, business interruption and environmental liability exposures that are typical of a public enterprise with manufacturing and marketing activities. Historically, we have relied on a combination of self-insurance through our captive insurance subsidiaries and third-party insurance to cover potential claims from these risks. Since March 31, 2005, except for fiduciary liability and directors and officers liability insurance, we no longer purchase any form of insurance from third party insurers. Consequently we are exposed to these risks. For example, in December 2005, fires and explosions at an oil depot in Hemel Hempstead, England, damaged the Company’s nearby office building and warehouse, as well as equipment and inventories housed in these facilities. Because we are effectively self-insured through our captive insurance subsidiary, we were required to record provisions for property losses as further discussed in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. We have taken, and will continue to take, what we believe are appropriate measures to protect ourselves from possible adverse consequences of such risks. Though our insurance coverage and cash flows have been adequate to provide for liability claims in the past, future liability claims and other losses from these risks could exceed our insurance coverage limits for past activities and future cash flows, and any significant losses from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions to expand or complement our business. As part of our growth strategy, we evaluate and pursue strategic business acquisitions to expand or complement our business. Such ventures may bring new products, increased market share or new customers to Alcon’s prominent position in the ophthalmic industry. We cannot ensure that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified. Acquisition activities can be thwarted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation (including market concentration limitations) and rapid replacement product developments in our industry. Further, after an acquisition, successful integration of the venture can be complicated by corporate cultural differences, difficulties in retention of key personnel, customers and suppliers, and coordination with other products and processes. Also, acquisitions could divert management’s attention from our existing business and could result in liabilities being incurred that were not known at the time of acquisition or the creation of tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise not realize the intended benefits of any acquisition. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Nestlé We will be controlled by Nestlé as long as it owns a majority of our common shares, and our other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of a shareholder vote during that time. Nestlé owns approximately 75% of our outstanding common shares. Because Nestlé's interests may differ from those of our other shareholders, actions Nestlé takes with respect to us may be unfavorable to our other shareholders. Minority holders of common shares will not be able to affect the outcome of most shareholder votes so long as Nestlé owns at least a majority of our outstanding common shares. So long as it owns at least two-thirds of our common shares, Nestlé will be able to control, among other things: increases in our share capital; the approval of a dissolution other than by liquidation, including by way of merger; the creation of restrictions on the transferability of our common shares; and the restriction or 17 elimination of preemptive rights in connection with a share capital increase. So long as it owns at least a majority of our common shares, Nestlé will be able to control, among other things: the election and removal of all of our directors; amendments to our Articles of Association (other than those subject to the two-thirds majority requirement referred to above); payment of dividends; changes to our capital structure unless the change is subject to the requirement that it be approved by holders of two-thirds of our common shares represented at a shareholders' meeting; and appointment and removal of our statutory and group auditors. Because Nestlé controls us, conflicts of interest between Nestlé and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Most of our agreements with Nestlé (or Nestlé affiliates), including the separation agreement, were finalized while we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Nestlé and, as a result, the terms of each may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated between unaffiliated parties. Various conflicts of interest between Alcon and Nestlé could arise. For example, ownership interests of directors or officers of Alcon in Nestlé shares or service as a director or officer of both Alcon and Nestlé could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when a director or officer is faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies, such as disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity, employee retention or recruiting or our dividend policy. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Shares The price of our common shares may fluctuate. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as announcements of innovations and discoveries or new products by us or our competitors, developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals, and changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts. At December 31, 2005, options to purchase approximately 4.9 million common shares granted under our incentive plan were scheduled to become exercisable in 2006, and in the event such options are exercised and there are sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market in connection with or immediately following such exercise by the option holders, the market price of our common shares may decrease significantly. The stock market in general sometimes experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and medical device companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common shares, which could cause a decline in the value of our common shares. You should also be aware that price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of our common shares is low. Sales or distributions of our common shares by Nestlé could depress the market price for our common shares. Nestlé may sell all or part of our common shares that it owns or distribute those common shares to its shareholders. There can be no assurance that any of our shareholders will be included in any transaction in which Nestlé sells a controlling interest in us or realize a premium with respect to their common shares. In addition, sales or distributions by Nestlé of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. Nestlé is not subject to any contractual obligation to maintain its ownership position in our shares. Risks Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Switzerland and Swiss law governs our internal corporate affairs. We are a corporation incorporated under the laws of Switzerland. The rights of holders of our common shares are governed by Swiss corporate law and by our Articles of Association. In particular, Swiss corporate law limits the ability of a shareholder to challenge resolutions or actions of our board of directors in court. Shareholders generally are not permitted to file a suit to reverse a decision or action by directors but are permitted to seek damages for breaches of fiduciary duty. Shareholder claims against a director for breach of fiduciary duty would, as a matter of Swiss law, have to be brought at our place of incorporation in the Canton of Zug, Switzerland, or at the domicile of the involved director. In addition, under Swiss law, any claims by shareholders against us must be brought exclusively at our place of incorporation. 18 Under Swiss corporate law, we are required to declare dividends in Swiss francs. As a result, any currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc will affect the dollar value of the dividends we pay. In addition, in several instances we follow Swiss corporate governance practices instead of the corporate governance practices applicable to a U.S. company under New York Stock Exchange listing standards. A summary of the principal areas of difference is provided under "Directors, Senior Management and Employees – Board Practices – Compliance with New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listing Standards on Corporate Governance." 