ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the company. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10-K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing the company. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. Our business and operating results could be harmed by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and general economic slowdowns. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for ICs. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over-supply, which have often had a severe negative effect on demand for ATE systems, including systems developed and marketed by us. During these periods, we experienced significant reductions and delays in customer orders, which had a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Downturns in the semiconductor industry have significant effects on the market for ATE. The impact of downturns on our financial performance is magnified due to the high proportion of fixed costs in our business, including significant R&D, manufacturing and selling costs, which limit our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to decreases of orders and revenues. If the worldwide economies do not continue to grow, we expect that the business levels we have recently experienced may not be sustainable and that our business may be harmed. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our stock price to decline. In the past we have experienced, and in the future we expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations occur for a variety of reasons, including: • demand for and market acceptance of our products as a result of the cyclical nature of the ATE industry or otherwise, often resulting in reduced ATE systems sales during industry downturns and increased sales during periods of industry recovery; • fluctuations in demand for flash memory; • order cancellations by customers; • changes in the timing and terms of product orders by customers; • variations in order patterns due to seasonal or annual budget effects; • the loss of a significant customer or reduced orders by that customer; • delays in acceptance of products by our customers as a result of our failure to meet the customers’ specification; • changes in the mix of products that we offer, as well as the relative mix of our product and service offerings, thereby affecting our margins in a particular quarter; • delays or problems in the planned introduction of new products; • competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices in our industry; • reduced margins as a result of attempts to gain market share by lowering the prices that we charge for our products; 9 Table of Contents • adverse changes in the semiconductor and consumer digital products industries, on which we are particularly dependent, which would likely reduce overall demand for ATE, including our products; • our competitors’ announcements of new products, services or technological innovations, which can, among other things, render our products less competitive due to the rapid technological change in our industry; • disruptions in our manufacturing or in the supply of components to us causing us to delay shipment of products; and • provisions to write-off excess or obsolete inventory. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our net revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Also, sales of a relatively limited number of systems may account for a substantial portion of our orders or net revenue in any particular quarter. Thus, changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, because of the factors listed above and because a significant portion of our expenses are fixed and independent of net revenue in any particular period, it is difficult for us to accurately predict our net revenue and operating results, which may cause our net revenue and operating results in one or more future quarters to be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we could experience an immediate and potentially significant decline in the trading price of our stock. We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and the termination of any of these relationships would materially adversely affect our business. Atmel Corp. accounted for 21% in fiscal 2004, 34% in fiscal 2005 and 11% in fiscal 2006 of our net revenue. SanDisk Corp. accounted for 26% in 2004, 16% in fiscal 2005 and 29% in fiscal 2006 of our net revenue. Further, Hynix accounted for 18% and Samsung for 15% of our net revenue in fiscal 2006. Atmel made significant capacity additions of our equipment in the first half of our fiscal year 2005, and at a reduced rate in the second half of fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006. SanDisk was our largest customer in fiscal years 2004, and has continued to purchase our products in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 at levels comparable to their past orders. Our customers are generally not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our systems, and they frequently evaluate competitive products prior to placing new orders with us. Our customers can cancel or delay orders without any penalties, and because of our reliance on a small number of large customers we cannot effectively require them to pay cancellation charges when canceling or rescheduling their orders with us. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated, and a small number of companies account for a substantial portion of the purchases of ATE systems generally, including our ATE systems. Consequently, our business and operating results would be materially adversely affected by the loss of, or any reduction in orders by, any of our significant customers, particularly if we were not able to replace that lost revenue with additional orders from new or existing customers. If demand for flash memory does not continue to rise, our business may be harmed. The sales of our ATE systems depend significantly on the demand for products incorporating flash memory ICs, such as portable music players, cellular phones, digital cameras, notebooks and USB flash drives. If these markets begin to experience slower growth rates, demand for our products will decline, and we will be increasingly dependent on the development of new markets. There can be no assurance that new markets will develop and grow fast enough, or that our ATE will be competitive in the new markets that develop. In addition, the semiconductor industry may develop alternative technologies that may make the use of flash memory less prevalent. A reduction in the demand for flash memory would likely result in a reduction in the demand for our products and could harm our business. 10 Table of Contents Delays in our ability to obtain customer acceptance for our products would delay the recognition of revenue by us. Customer purchase orders for our ATE products may require; (1) customer acceptance and/or (2) us to meet customer-specific criteria before the system is accepted by the customer. When a customer purchase order includes obtaining customer acceptance and/or meeting customer-specific criteria, revenue is deferred and recognized only when customer acceptance has been received. While purchase orders for any of our products may contain such criteria, the likelihood that they will be included is higher when a product is new to the marketplace, or when an existing product is sold for the first time to a new customer. If we are not able to meet customer acceptance criteria in a timely manner, the recognition of revenue from these sales would be delayed. If our Magnum system does not continue to achieve market acceptance, our revenue growth and profitability will be limited. Our future financial performance is highly dependent on our ability to sell our Magnum system to new customers as well as our ability to increase sales to existing customers. Customer expense in transitioning to a new ATE system can be significant. Certain prospective customers may be unwilling, or unable, to bear the increased costs of transitioning to a new ATE system. This may make it difficult for us to market and sell Magnum. Furthermore, the competition we face frequently changes as new competitive product offerings are brought to market. We may not be able to transition new customers to our Magnum system or to compete successfully against the future offerings of our competitors. In addition, if Magnum has actual or perceived reliability, quality, functionality or other problems, we may suffer reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, inability to recognize revenue, delays in collecting accounts receivable and higher service, support and warranty expenses or inventory write-offs, among other effects. We believe that the acceptance, volume production, timely delivery and customer satisfaction of Magnum is of significant importance to our future financial results. As a result, any inability to correct any technical, reliability, parts shortages or other difficulties or to manufacture and ship Magnum or any future product on a timely basis meeting customer requirements could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not develop and maintain new customer relationships, our ability to generate revenue growth will be adversely affected. Our ability to increase our sales will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers. Obtaining orders from new customers is difficult because some semiconductor manufacturers select one vendor’s systems for testing an entire generation of ICs and make substantial investments to develop related test program software and interfaces. Once these semiconductor manufacturers have selected an ATE system vendor, they are likely to continue to purchase test systems from that vendor. Further, some of our target customers may prefer larger, more established vendors. If we are unable to obtain new customers that adopt and implement our products and technology, our business will be harmed. We face additional difficulties in our efforts to develop new customer relationships abroad. Nationalistic buying practices could favor local competitors or non-local competitors with larger presence in local economies than we have. As a result, we may be forced to partner with local companies in order to compete for business and such arrangements, if available, may negatively impact our financial performance. We face substantial competition which, among other things, may lead to price pressure and adversely affect our sales and results of operation. We face substantial competition throughout the world. Our direct competitors include Advantest Corporation, Verigy Ltd., Yokogawa Electric Corporation, Credence Systems Corporation, Eagle Test Systems, Inc., LTX Corporation, and Teradyne, Inc. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources 11 Table of Contents and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities than we do. Our relatively small size gives us less leverage with component and service vendors than our larger competitors have. Also, some of our larger competitors, having greater resources, may be more willing or able than we are to put capital at risk to win business, for example, by loaning or providing equipment at no charge to customers. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products, technologies or services that could adversely affect sales of our current and future products and services. Furthermore, some of our competitors have a greater presence abroad than we have, which makes it more difficult for us to compete for foreign customers. In order to gain market share, we may be required to reduce the price of our products, and we may not be able to offset the effect of lower prices through improved absorption of indirect manufacturing costs or reduced direct product costs. This would result in a lower gross profit as a percent of net revenue. Our competitors may also elect to reduce the price of their products leading to a reduction in average selling prices throughout our industry. Alternatively, our competitors could introduce competing low-cost ATE systems and sell them at a loss. The overall demand for production test equipment is not likely to substantially increase as prices are reduced. Accordingly, price reductions by our competitors may force us to lower our prices, as demand for ATE stays the same. This may limit our opportunities for growth and negatively impact our financial performance. Some of our competitors provide a bundled solution to the customer, which includes an ATE system and other components of the test cell. In addition, some components of the test platform provided by our competitors may be incompatible with our ATE system or unavailable for sale with our products. We may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our net revenue and operating results. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our net revenue, and therefore our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, to fluctuate widely from period to period. These variations often are based upon factors partially or completely outside our control. The factors that affect the length of time it takes for us to complete a sale depend upon many elements including: • customer-specific acceptance criteria that customers may place upon our products; • the complexity of the customer’s fabrication processes; • the willingness of customers to adopt new product platforms or products; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer; and • the capital expenditures of our customers. As a result of these and a number of other factors influencing our sales cycles with particular customers, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer, if ever, varies widely. Our product sales cycles typically can range from six to 12 months. Sometimes our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly when the sales cycle involves developing new applications for our systems, new technology or the introduction of new products. During these cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts before receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite these efforts. Our dependence on subcontractors and single and sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis. We rely on subcontractors to manufacture certain subassemblies for our products, and we rely on single source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small in size, for many of the components we use in our products. 12 Table of Contents For example, we rely on one small supplier for an electronic component used in our Magnum product. If this supplier cannot provide this component on a timely basis, at the same price or at all, our ability to manufacture the Magnum system will suffer. Should any of our single and sole source suppliers cease manufacture of any of the components that we use in our design and manufacturing, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply, produce a lifetime supply of these components, or manufacture these components internally or redesign our products to eliminate the unavailable component. Since the manufacturing of certain components and subassemblies is an extremely complex process, the process of qualifying new subcontractors and new suppliers, or initiating manufacturing internally for these complex components, is a lengthy process and could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead time or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type may result in an excess of parts as demand for our products decreases. Our reliance on subcontractors gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, especially inadequate capacity, late delivery, substandard quality and high costs. Additionally, we do not have written supply agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers and generally they are under no obligation to provide us with material for as long as our requirements may exist. As a result, the loss or failure to perform by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and operating results. Continued advances in IC technology may render our products and services uncompetitive. The IC industry into which we sell our products is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The success of our product and service offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify customer needs and anticipate technological advances and industry trends; • innovate, develop and commercialize new technologies and applications in a timely manner; • adjust to changing market conditions; and • differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. Our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new, as well as current, products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers’ products. Development of new products generally requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of these innovations. In addition, new methods of testing ICs such as built in self-test, design for test, or structural test initiatives could create the need for a different ATE system or system architecture than we have developed and render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to adequately predict our customers’ needs and technological advances, we may invest heavily in R&D of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, or we may fail to invest in technology necessary to meet changing customer demands. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements that reflect these changes, our products and services would likely become technologically obsolete, and our net revenue and operating results would suffer. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products or services. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert our management and key 13 Table of Contents personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, there is no assurance we will be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products and services. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business and operating results. We currently have three United States patents issued expiring between 2022 and 2024, seven patent applications filed in the United States, one foreign patent issued expiring in 2022, and fourteen foreign patent applications pending. Our pending patent applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of these patent applications. In addition, our patents may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Regardless of the merits of any claim, litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention from our business operations. We may not be successful in any litigation or in our actions to enforce our intellectual property rights, may not be able to detect any infringement and, as a result, may lose competitive position in the market. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share in those countries. Accordingly, we may not able to protect against unauthorized use of our technology by third parties, which could materially harm our business. If we fail to manage our growth, our business will suffer. The addition of Magnum to our product offering has required significant expansion to address growth and diversification in our customer base and market opportunities, particularly with large internationally based customers. In order to serve this expanded customer base, we have added to our organizations in Asia and will need to make further additions to these organizations in the future. This expansion may place a strain on our operational and financial resources. Furthermore, some of our officers or senior management personnel have no prior senior management experience at public companies. Additionally, we need to properly implement and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, including the increased internal reporting controls and procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which we will need to be in compliance with in fiscal 2007. These complexities could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees or increase our costs. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be affected adversely. Failure to plan the production of products accurately or failure to estimate our customers’ demand could adversely affect our inventory levels and our income. Given the cyclical nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue or profitability. Delivery expectations of our customers are significantly shorter than the time required to purchase components and assemble products. Accordingly, we must order components and build some inventory before we actually receive a purchase order. Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal or cyclical nature of the semiconductor 14 Table of Contents market in which we operate. The sales of our products are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in the demand for their products. During a market upturn, our results could be materially and adversely impacted if we do not correctly anticipate demand from our customers, or if we cannot increase our purchases of components parts and services quickly enough to meet increasing demand for our products. In addition, purchase orders we receive from our customers may be cancelled or postponed, generally without penalty to the customer. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, we could have excess inventory that we would not be able to sell, likely resulting in inventory write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, if we do not successfully manage the introduction of our new products, our backlog and our inventory of existing products may be affected as our customers switch to our new products. If demand for our new products is higher than we anticipated, we might have insufficient quantities for sale of the product that customers want to buy. If demand is less than we expect, we may experience excess inventories of our new products. In addition, if some of our customers cancel their current orders for our old products in anticipation of our new products, we may have additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. Backlog is not necessarily indicative of our results in any future period. At June 24, 2006, our backlog of unfilled orders for all products and services was $20.8 million, compared with $18.9 million at June 25, 2005. While backlog is calculated on the basis of open purchase orders, such orders may be subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty. Our backlog at any particular date, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual sales which may be generated for any succeeding period. Historically, our backlog levels have fluctuated based upon the ordering patterns of our customers and changes in our manufacturing capacity. Furthermore, our backlog may be affected by our limited visibility in the semiconductor capital equipment industry and potential delays of delivery dates by our customers. These potential delays or cancellations by our customers may have a materially negative effect on our results of operations. Products that do not meet customer specifications or contain defects that harm our customers could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. The complexity and on-going development of our products could lead to design or manufacturing problems. Our ATE systems may fail to meet our customers’ technical requirements, or may contain defects, which cause damage to our customers’ production lines or facilities. Any of these problems may harm our customers’ businesses. If any of our products fail to meet specifications or have reliability or quality problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in net revenue, an increase in product returns and the loss of existing customers or failure to attract new customers. In addition, if any of our products fail to accurately test our customers’ products, it may result in our customers shipping faulty ICs. Besides damaging our reputation, our customers may sue us for any consequential damages they incur as a result of such problems in our ATE systems. These problems may adversely affect customer relationships, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations, particularly in Asia, could adversely affect our sales. Since we sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our revenue originating outside of North America, including export sales from our United States manufacturing facilities to foreign locations, as a percentage of our total net revenue, was 61.7% in fiscal year 2004, 58.5% in fiscal year 2005 and 82.4% in fiscal year 2006. These international sales will continue to be subject to certain risks, including: • changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements and other barriers; 15 Table of Contents • political and economic instability; • the adverse effect of fears surrounding outbreaks of Avian flu, recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other diseases, on our business and sales and that of our customers and suppliers, especially in Asia; • natural disasters affecting the regions in which we sell products; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and their impact on the delivered costs of our U.S. dollar denominated products to foreign customers; • effective management of our foreign subsidiaries and operations; • potential adverse tax expenses; • collection of our accounts receivable; and • protection of our intellectual property rights. In particular, many international economies have been highly volatile in the past, resulting in significant fluctuations in local currencies and other instabilities. Several countries in which we sell products in Asia have been affected by the occurrence of Avian flu, SARS and other diseases. These instabilities continue and may occur again in the future. Our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies of Asia will increase to the extent that we continue to expand our operations in that region. An outbreak of Avian flu, SARS or other diseases could result in delay in customer acceptance of our products or prevent us from installing or servicing our products sold in the affected region. We are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of domestic and foreign legislation, regulations and currency restrictions relating to the import or export of semiconductor manufacturing equipment and software products. We cannot predict whether the import and export of our products will be adversely affected by changes in, or enactment of new quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions imposed by the United States or any other country in the future. Any of these factors or the adoption of restrictive policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, international turmoil, exacerbated by the situations in Iraq, Iran and North Korea, tensions in Israel and Lebanon, and civil war in the Philippines have contributed to an uncertain political and economic climate, both in the United States and globally, which may affect our ability to generate revenue on a predictable basis. In addition, terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks, both domestically and internationally, have negatively impacted worldwide economies. As we sell products both in the United States and internationally, the threat of future terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business. These conditions make it difficult for us and for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor labor market is very competitive and our business will suffer if we are not able to hire and retain key personnel. Our business is dependent on technology expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess. The loss of any of our key employees, including Robin Adler, our Chief Executive Officer, Tim Moriarty, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, or Craig Foster, our Vice President of Engineering, or a broader loss of any of our employees who are highly-skilled in our specialized sector of IC test technology, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of our small size, it is more difficult for us to hire and retain qualified personnel. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the technology and public company financial reporting areas is intense and we operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including the San Francisco Bay Area region where our headquarters and central R&D laboratories are located. 16 Table of Contents If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, including natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our operations and those of our customers, suppliers and subcontractors are vulnerable to interruptions by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, terrorist attack, outbreak of infectious diseases, war and other events beyond our control. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. In particular, we have significant facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as our production facilities and headquarters in California. We have one facility in San Jose, California, where we perform important components of our manufacturing process, and all final assembly and test prior to customer shipment. We have no back up location for this facility. If this facility were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. We do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result, our business and future operating results could be adversely affected. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies and the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions may never be realized. We may make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no acquisition or investments are currently pending. Any future acquisitions would be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; • diversion of our management’s attention from on-going business concerns; • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; • maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel; • dilution to our stockholders in the event we issue stock as consideration to finance an acquisition; and • increased leverage if we incur debt to finance an acquisition. To date, we have limited experience effecting or managing the integration of acquisitions and investments. As a result, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders directly or indirectly control approximately 45% of our common stock and are able to significantly influence corporate actions. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders directly or indirectly control approximately 45% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages to owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Securities analysts may not initiate coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock because of our small size, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks, have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, investment banking firms may contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies with smaller market capitalizations, such as ours, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on our market price. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of shares of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price. There will be approximately 11.4 million additional shares of our common stock eligible for sale beginning September 18, 2006, as lock-up arrangements between our stockholders and the underwriters expire. This number includes approximately eight million shares of common stock that are subject to registration rights. We may incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have resulted in increased costs to us. Because of our size, this additional cost is significant as a percentage of our total net revenue. The new rules could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies of semiconductor capital equipment manufacturing companies are subject to review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or, FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 123 (revised 2004), or SFAS 123(R) that became affective for us for our interim period beginning December 25, 2005. SFAS 123(R) requires us to expense the fair value of stock options over the requisite service period. This resulted in an increase in our operating expenses. As a result, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options and do not adopt other forms of compensation, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our operating expenses could increase further. For a company of our relatively small size to stay competitive in the San Francisco Bay Area region, we rely on stock options to retain existing employees and attract new employees. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to adversely revise how our financial statements are prepared. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to timely complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. Effective internal reporting controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively detect and prevent fraud. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required beginning with our fiscal year ending June 30, 2007 to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence. Also, the lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may adversely impact our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult, even if an acquisition or a management change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in our management. Some of these provisions allow us to issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders and require advance notification of stockholder proposals and nominations of candidates for election as directors. Our bylaws provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by our Chairman, President, our board of directors or holders of not less than 20% of our common stock. These provisions may prevent or delay a change in our board of directors or our management, which is appointed by our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our charter, bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 