ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS, AMONG OTHERS, MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE . REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. WE ARE SUBJECT TO, AMONG OTHERS, THE FOLLOWING RISKS: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A GENERAL ECONOMIC DOWNTURN, A RECESSION IN CHINA OR IN ONE OR MORE OF THE 46 COUNTRIES WHERE WE SELL TO INTERNATIONAL AFFILIATED COMPANIES OR SUDDEN DISRUPTION IN BUSINESS CONDITIONS MAY AFFECT CONSUMER PURCHASES OF DISCRETIONARY ITEMS, INCLUDING NUTRITION SUPPLEMENT PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. 7 Consumer spending is generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the level of unemployment, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. In addition, sudden disruptions in business conditions as a result of a terrorist attack, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation, war, adverse weather conditions and climate changes or other natural disasters, pandemic situations or large scale power outages can have a short or, sometimes, long-term impact on consumer spending. A downturn in the economies in China or in one or more of the 46 countries where we sell to international affiliated companies, or where they sell to other companies, including any recession or a sudden disruption of business conditions in those economies, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RAISE ADEQUATE FUNDS TO COMPLETE THE CONSTRUCTION OF OUR NEW HEADQUARTERS, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING FACILITIES BEING BUILT BY LIFE RESOURCES. As of December 31, 2008, the majority of the main structures of the Life Resources facility construction project had been completed. Since September 30, 2008, the office buildings, warehouses, work plants, product exhibition center and dormitories have undergone internal decoration. The cost of the completed work of these facilities is approximately $69,581,772 (based on an exchange rate of $1 = RMB 6.85 as of September 30, 2008), which includes amounts paid for the underlying land use rights. The main structures of the quality control center, power center, boiler room and new main material center are expected be completed in the first half of 2009 and internal decoration is expected to be completed in the second half of 2009. As of the end of 2008, the cost of the completed work of these facilities was $78,782,353 (based on an exchange rate of $1 = RMB 6.8542 as of December 31, 2008), which includes amounts paid for the underlying land use right. We expect that all construction work and equipment installation will be completed in 2009 and that the Life Resources facility is estimated to begin operation by the end of 2009. We have provided for an amount of up to $72,957,554 (based on an exchange rate of $1 = RMB 6.8533 as of January 1, 2009) in our 2009 budget for capital expenditures on the Life Resources facility. Depending on the rate of construction and our cash flow, we may require additional financing to complete the funding of the Life Resources facility construction project. If we are not able to fund the completion of the new facilities, our future growth opportunities may be limited. OUR REPUTATION, REVENUES AND OPERATING INCOME MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. As a manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, claims may be brought against us that a product injured its consumer. Our dietary supplement products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS. There are risks associated with ingredients mixing and production processes and techniques. Our manufacturing process requires a significant degree of technical expertise. If we fail to manufacture our products to specifications or inadvertently use defective materials in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce nearly all of the proprietary products we sell. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force majeure, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. OUR NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE COMPATIBLE WITH MARKET NEEDS. Our business is particularly subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. Because markets for nutrition supplement products differentiate geographically, we must accurately assess specific demand in each specific market into which we wish to make sales. If we fail to accurately assess consumer health needs in each market we target, we may face limited market acceptance of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and revenue. 8 OUR PRODUCTS MUST KEEP PACE WITH ADVANCES IN THE INDUSTRY OR THEY MAY BE DISPLACED BY COMPETITORS’ NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS. The nutrition supplement products industry is characterized by rapid product development, with significant competitive advantages gained by companies that introduce products that are first to market, deliver constant innovation in products and techniques, offer frequent new product introductions and have competitive prices. Our future growth partially depends on our ability to develop products that are more effective in meeting consumer needs. In addition, we must be able to manufacture and effectively market those products. The sales of our existing products may decline if a competing product is introduced by other companies. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: · accurately anticipate consumer needs; · innovate and develop new products; · successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; · price our products competitively; · manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and · differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we fail to do any of the above or we focus on technologies that do not lead to more effective products, our current and future products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of others. WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS WITH RELATED PARTIES, AND YOUR INVESTMENT MAY BE SUBJECT TO CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND SELF-DEALING RISKS. Due to the inter-related ownership and business dealings among us and our affiliates, there are conflict of interest and self-dealing risks. We have affiliated companies or business entities that are owned by Jinyuan Li and his immediate family members (mostly his daughter Baolan Li). Although all affiliated companies and business entities were established so that they are legally and financially independent, except for the common ownership, they are centrally administrated by Tianshi Group. The decisions of Tianshi Group could materially affect the operation of our business, which could be adverse to our investors. We sell all of our products for resale in China to Tianshi Engineering. As both we and Tianshi Engineering are majority owned by Jinyuan Li, even given consideration to the internal price transferring policies set among the related parties, these internal policies could be faulty or might not be strictly followed. WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL OVER THE ACTIVITIES OF OUR DISTRIBUTORS. We place significant reliance on a network of affiliates to act as our primary sales force. Although a majority of our affiliated companies are controlled in whole or part by Jinyuan Li, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, such affiliates are not employed or otherwise controlled by us and are generally free to conduct their business at their own discretion. The distributors are dedicated more to establishing their own reputations and business relationships than to promoting our products. The simultaneous loss of a number of these distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 9 WE FACE RISKS DUE TO OUR RELIANCE ON SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. Our future success will depend in part on the continued expansion of international sales. Such international operations expose us to certain risks, including but not limited to: a need for export licenses; unexpected regulatory requirements; tariffs and other potential trade barriers and restrictions; political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; longer account receivable cycles; difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; foreign currency fluctuations; limited protection of our intellectual property rights in some countries; dependence on local distributors; and potential disruptions in sales due to military or terrorist acts. Any or a combination of these risks could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION OVER NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENT PRODUCTS IN MARKETS OUTSIDE CHINA. Nutrition supplement products are subject to regulatory requirements that vary by country. Obtaining approval to sell nutrition supplement products internationally involves complexities of dealing with a variety of governmental regulations. We have limited experience in dealing with the specific regulations that may be required to sell our products in certain international markets, which could delay our ability to obtain relevant regulatory approval for our products. In addition, our product sales in other countries are subject to product regulatory regimes of various degrees and direct marketing or distribution regulations. Although currently these aspects are handled by our affiliated distributors in the relevant jurisdictions, there can be no assurance that the current operations of our company and our affiliates and distributors will not be adversely affected by compliance issues and changes in applicable laws and regulations in relevant jurisdictions. THE DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION OUTSIDE CHINA. Products distributed outside China are subject to government regulations of different jurisdictions, which could be stricter than in China. In some developed countries, the government regulations for product approval could be stricter than in China, while in developing countries, government regulation could be uncertain. Our products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval or may never gain approval in certain countries, which could limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute products. In addition, in terms of our marketing approach, multi-level marketing may also be prohibited in some countries. As such, our sales may be adversely affected if such approval cannot be obtained in certain jurisdictions. OUR MANAGEMENT LACKS EXPERIENCE OPERATING A U.S. PUBLIC COMPANY. Our management had no experience operating a U.S. public company before our acquisition of Tianshi Holdings. The initial difficulties with public company regulations faced by U.S. managers of a newly public company are aggravated with respect to our management, by our unfamiliarity with Western regulatory regimes and language and time zone differences. In addition, management must integrate new accounting rules and control procedures to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Learning compliance is likely to distract management from operations to a greater degree than might be the case of management of a U.S. company, and the period during which our management masters the rules, when errors are more likely to occur, may be longer. Accordingly, the expense and operational risks inherent to a transition from private to public company are greater for Tiens USA than might usually be the case. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. As most of our operations are conducted in China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. 10 Although the majority of productive assets in China are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: · We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; · The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; and · Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. A CAMPAIGN IMPOSED BY THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT AGAINST THE EXPORT OF UNSAFE FOOD AND SUBSTANDARD PRODUCTS, IN HINDERING OUR ABILITY TO EXPORT OUR PRODUCTS INTERNATIONALLY. In August 2007, China’s Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (“AQSIQ”) announced an ongoing national campaign in China against unsafe food and substandard products. The special campaign against poor product quality was launched in response to a series of safety scares involving Chinese products worldwide. The campaign set 20 detailed goals, including twelve “100 percents”. For example, 100 percent of food producers should be licensed; 100 percent of agricultural wholesale markets in cities must be monitored; 100 percent of suppliers of raw materials for exported products should be inspected; and 100 percent of agricultural products must be free of five types of strong pesticides. As a result of this campaign by the AQSIQ, there has been a general slow-down and backlog of export clearances for Chinese food products, and from August 2007 through the first quarter of 2008, we experienced significant delays in obtaining export clearance for all of the products which we sell to our international affiliates. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, these export restrictions were reduced for exports to countries in Africa and Asia, but remained in place for exports to countries in Europe and the Americas. During the third quarter of 2008, these export restrictions were further reduced and the campaign ended at the end of 2008. We believe that these restrictions have resulted in some of our international affiliates not being able to purchase sufficient quantities of our products to meet their demand during 2007 and 2008, resulting in a loss of sales. Any similar campaigns in the future could have a negative impact on our revenue. THE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, MANUFACTURING AND MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS IN CHINA. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and the sale and distribution of wellness products. Tianshi Engineering is also subject to government regulations with respect to the prices it will charge, the rebates it may offer to customers and the methods of its marketing. Government regulation may substantially increase the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. UNCERTAINTY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECT SELLING REGULATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS IN CHINA. Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and approximately 41% and 48% of our revenues in 2007 and 2008, respectively, were derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our operations are subject, to a significant degree, to Chinese law. In China, we are aiming to expand our market share through the branches, chain stores, and affiliated companies of Tianshi Engineering, our affiliate who sells our products in China. The regulatory environment with respect to direct selling in this market remains fluid and the process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals have been interpreted differently by different governmental authorities. The direct selling regulations require Tianshi Engineering to apply for approval to conduct a direct selling enterprise in China. 11 Tianshi Engineering has applied for a direct selling license in a number of provinces and must obtain a series of approvals from the Departments of Commerce in such provinces, as well as the Departments of Commerce in each city and district in which we plan to operate. Tianshi Engineering is also required to obtain the approval of the State Ministry of Commerce, which is the national government authority overseeing direct selling. Tianshi Engineering has found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with the Chinese authorities. These authorities have broad discretion in interpreting the regulations and granting necessary approvals. A delay in obtaining approvals at one level can delay our ability to obtain approvals at the next level. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict a timeline for obtaining these approvals. If Tianshi Engineering does not receive a direct selling license in China, then its ability to compete against its competitors who have received such a license may be hurt. As a result, Tianshi Engineering may lose distributors who find a competitor’s direct selling business and compensation model more attractive. This could materially decrease the revenue that we receive from sales by Tianshi Engineering in China. IF PREFERENTIAL TAX CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE PRC GOVERNMENT CHANGE OR EXPIRE, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WOULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our results of operation may be adversely affected by changes to or expiration of preferential tax concessions that our Chinese subsidiaries, Biological and Life Resources currently enjoy. The statutory tax rate generally applicable to domestic Chinese companies was 33% before January 1, 2008. On January 1, 2008, the new Chinese Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT”) law replaced the existing laws for Domestic Enterprises (“DES”) and Foreign Invested Enterprises (“FIEs”). The new standard EIT rate of 25% is now applicable to both DES and FIEs. A reduced rate of 10% may be possible for high-tech companies which qualified by local government and reviewed annually. As a result of preferential tax rate incentives, our operations under Biological have been subject to relatively lower tax liabilities than under the statutory tax rate. The estimated tax savings for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 for Biological amounted to approximately $1,563,649 and $6,851,099, respectively. According to the new EIT, Life Resources could still be fully exempt from PRC income taxes for two years starting from January 1, 2008, followed by a 12.5% reduced tax rate for the next three years. The estimated tax savings for the year ended December 31, 2008 amounted to $6,489,259 for Life Resources. Tax laws in China are subject to interpretations by relevant tax authorities. The preferential tax treatment may not remain in effect or may change, in which case we could be required to pay the higher income tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies, or such other rate as the relevant tax authorities may determine to be required by the laws of China. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX CHINESE BUSINESS REGULATIONS. As China changes its economy from planned to more market-oriented, uncertainties arise regarding governmental policies and measures. Although, in recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and establishment of sound corporate governance practices, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. For example, all lands are state owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental grants of state-owned land use rights. The grant process is typically based on government policies at the time of grant, which can be lengthy and complex and may adversely affect our planned manufacturing expansion. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocation of resources, foreign currency control and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. BECAUSE MOST OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS RESIDE OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR ASSETS ARE LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO ENFORCE THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS AGAINST SUCH INDIVIDUALS OR SUCH ASSETS. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Although China has executed the Agreement on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters with the United States in June 2000, there is no extradition treaty between the United States and China. Therefore, it is unclear whether criminal penalties under United States federal securities laws would be enforced effectively in China, if at all. 12 DUE TO VARIOUS RESTRICTIONS UNDER PRC LAWS ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF DIVIDENDS BY OUR PRC OPERATING COMPANIES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PAY DIVIDENDS TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. The Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended and The Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended, contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises. Under these regulations, wholly foreign owned enterprises, such as Biological and Life Resources, may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, Biological and Life Resources are required to set aside a certain amount of any accumulated profits each year (a minimum of 10%, and up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital), to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation and cannot be used for working capital purposes. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. If we ever determine to pay a dividend, we may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency for the payment of such dividends from the profits of Biological and Life Resources. THE CHINESE LEGAL SYSTEM IS NOT FULLY DEVELOPED AND HAS INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD LIMIT THE LEGAL PROTECTIONS AVAILABLE TO INVESTORS. The Chinese legal system is a system based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited legal precedent. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. Two examples are the promulgation of the Contract Law of the PRC to unify the various economic contract laws into a single code, which went into effect on October 1, 1999, and the Securities Law of the People’s Republic of China, which went into effect on July 1, 1999. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES IN RESOLUTION OF LEGAL DISPUTES. As China has not developed a dispute resolution mechanism similar to the Western court system, it may be difficult to enforce contracts and dispute resolution over Chinese projects and joint ventures can be difficult. There is no assurance that any dispute involving our business in China can be resolved expeditiously and satisfactorily. CHINESE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS AS WELL AS GOVERNMENT POLICIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. All of our assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 13 The economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, but growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures from time to time to control the rate of economic growth. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by: · changes in the rate or method of taxation; · imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad; · reduction in tariff or quota protection and other import restrictions; and · changes in the usage and costs of state-controlled transportation services. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE CHINESE RENMINBI RELATIVE TO FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Substantially all our revenues and expenses are denominated in the Chinese Renminbi. However, we use the United States dollar for financial reporting purposes. The value of Chinese Renminbi against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The Chinese government values the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just exclusively the United States dollar. Although the Chinese government has stated its intention to support the value of the Chinese Renminbi, we cannot assure you that the government will not revalue it. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. To date, we have not engaged in any hedging transactions in connection with our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS AFFECTED BY ITS LIMITED TRADING MARKET. Shares of our common stock are traded on NYSE Alternext US LLC under the symbol “TBV”. The trading volume of our common stock historically has been limited and sporadic. As a result , the price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value and may fluctuate widely. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RELATING TO “PENNY STOCK.” The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in such regulations) of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock meets the definition of a penny stock, it will be subjected to these regulations, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. WE ARE MAJORITY OWNED BY ONE STOCKHOLDER. Our president and chief executive officer, Jinyuan Li, controls a majority of our common stock. Jinyuan Li beneficially owns approximately 95.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Jinyuan Li has the ability to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such change of control would benefit our other shareholders. 14 WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, AND THE LACK OF DIVIDENDS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE STOCK PRICE. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Also, see risk factor titled “Due to Various Restrictions Under PRC Laws on the Distribution of Dividends by Our PRC Operating Companies, We May Not Be Able to Pay Dividends to Our Stockholders.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 