D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our American Depository Shares or ADSs. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our ADSs. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operation. 2 Industry Specific Risk Factors The product tanker and dry bulk carrier sectors are cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and results of operations The dry bulk carrier and product tanker sectors are cyclical with volatility in charterhire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers and product tankers has varied widely. After reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter hire rates for Panamax and Capesize dry bulk carriers have reached near historically low levels. Tanker charter hire rates have also declined from historical highs reached in mid-2008, although the decline has been less than in the dry bulk sector. If we enter into a charter when charterhire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charterhire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations or pay dividends to our shareholders. The factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk carriers and product tankers are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: · demand for and production of dry bulk products, crude oil and refined petroleum products; · the distance cargo is to be moved by sea; · changes in oil production and refining capacity; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced, oil is refined and cargoes are used. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; · price of steel; · number of vessels that are out of service; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and · port or canal congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the world's dry bulk carrier and product tanker fleets, and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the shipping sectors in which we operate, but the demand for vessel capacity in these sectors does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 3 The downturns in the dry bulk carrier and tanker charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our loan covenants, require us to raise additional capital in order to comply with our loan covenants, and affect our ability to pay dividends. The BDI, a daily average of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis covering Supramax, Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 2,332 in May 2009, which represents a decline of 80%. The BDI fell over 78% during the months of October through November of 2008 alone. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which has resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which has resulted in falling iron ore prices. The decline in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follow the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. In the second half of 2008, the slowdown in global economic growth led to a significant decline in oil prices from a high of $145 per barrel in July 2008 to $42 per barrel in January 2009 after reaching a low of $39 in December 31, 2008. OPEC has responded to this decrease in oil price by reducing oil supply significantly. The recent rapid decline in global oil prices has negatively impacted tanker charter rates as well as the value of our tanker vessels. According to industry sources, the average spot market rate for a Suezmax tanker for the benchmark Suezmax tanker route loading in West Africa and discharging in the U.S. Atlantic Coast declined from a high of $138,943 per day in July 2008 to a low of $35,018 per day in November 2008, which represents a decline of 75%. The average spot market rate for this benchmark route was $56,574 per day on December 31, 2008, which represents a decline of 59% from the high reached in July 2008. Although this decline has not been as severe as the decline in the drybulk market, it has a commensurate decline in our tanker vessel values affecting our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. If these trends continue, in order to remain viable, we may have to suspend or reduce dividend payments, sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on, but not limited to, the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · shipyard capacity; · governmental or other regulations; · age of vessels; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. 4 If we sell any of our tankers or dry bulk carriers at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we shall incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities Our loan agreements do not contain any vessel minimum value clauses and our rights and obligations under the loan agreements will not be affected by a decrease of the market values of our vessels. However, should the market values of our vessels decrease, it would limit the amount of new funds available under our available credit facilities and under future loan facilities. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand dry bulk carriers are near historically low levels and prices for tanker vessels have dropped dramatically as well. The market value of our vessels fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of constructing newbuildings. The market value of our fleet may decline as a result of a downswing in the historically cyclical shipping industry. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels decline, that may lead to an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements and ultimately have an adverse effect on our ability to meet certain financial covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale price may be less than the vessel's carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. If the book value of the vessels in a cash-generating unit (the Tanker or the Bulk division) is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or the vessels are sold at a price below the book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. Newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continuing through 2008. As of December 2008, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 72% of the existing global dry bulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, waiting days in ports, as well as strong overall economic growth in parts of the world economy. Furthermore, the extension of refinery capacity in India and the Middle East up to 2011 will exceed the immediate consumption in these areas, and an increase in exports of refined oil products is expected as a result. Factors that tend to decrease tanker supply include the conversion of tankers to non-tanker purposes and the phasing out of single-hull tankers due to legislation and environmental concerns. We believe shipyards are expected to operate more or less at full capacity with their present orderbooks for both drybulk carriers and tankers. An over-supply of drybulk carrier or tanker capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to recharter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. 5 Our operating results from our fleet are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results in a given financial period Our fleet consists of dry bulk carriers and product tankers. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The dry bulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect our dry bulk revenues to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, we expect our revenues to be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in a given financial period. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004, and in London on July 7, 2005, and the attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Our vessels may be damaged due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and early 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. 6 Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2008, we have total outstanding indebtedness of USD 1,723 million under our credit facilities. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, has caused the price of our ADS's on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and our common shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange to decline and could cause the price of our securities to decline further. The dry bulk carrier and tanker operations involve certain unique operational risks The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk carrier. Drybulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the drybulk carrier's bulkheads leading to the loss of the drybulk carrier. The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA; · the U.S Clean Air Act; · the U.S. Clean Water Act; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships; 7 · the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966; and · the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this annual report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd's Register of Shipping or Det Norske Veritas, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. 8 If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which would negatively impact our revenues. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Company Specific Risk Factors Servicing our debt limits funds available for other purposes and, if we cannot service our debt, we may lose some or all of our vessels, restricting our ability to conduct our business We must dedicate a large part of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our debt level also makes us vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If we expand our fleet, we will need to take on additional debt, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. Our inability to service debt could also lead to acceleration of our debt and the foreclosure of all or a portion of our fleet. Certain of our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants, which may limit our liquidity and corporate activities and prevent proper service of debt, which could result in the loss of our vessels Some loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions upon us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · change the management of our vessels without the lenders' consent (which they are not entitled to unreasonably withhold); and · enter into mergers or corporate restructurings, or effect material divestments, if such would be materially adverse to the company. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business We enter into forward freight agreements (FFAs), forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts and employ our vessels on Contracts of Affreightment (COAs), fixed rate time charters and voyage charters. Our FFAs, forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts, COAs and vessel charters subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on time charters, in pools or take advantage of the current spot market We employ the majority of our vessels on spot voyage charters or short-term time charters. Our operating results will therefore depend on the prevailing charter rates in a given time period. Charter rates are based in part on supply and demand and are extremely competitive. Significant fluctuations in charter rates will result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. Although we charter out some of our vessels on long-term time charters when we want to lock in favorable charter rates and generate predictable revenue streams, our vessels that are committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upswing in the shipping industry, when spot voyages might be more profitable. We are impacted by any increase or decrease in market rates. If rates were to decrease significantly, we may not utilize our fleet fully and our earnings could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the bulk and tanker industries, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations Our management personnel make key decisions to maximize our revenue and earnings in this highly volatile and cyclical industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings We own both vessels constructed for us directly by builders and previously owned, or secondhand, vessels purchased from other owners. While we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if we buy vessels older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2008, our fleet of owned vessels included 4 vessels more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine and hull technology. After vessels reach 15 years of age, the majority of charterers and oil companies may impose restrictions on vessels that make it more difficult to trade the vessels with optimal flexibility. In addition, these older vessels must meet certain hull thickness tests. Furthermore, cargo insurance rates increase for vessels over 15 years of age, making them less desirable to charterers. We, however, consider a useful lifetime of 25 years to be the best estimate of the economic lifetime of a vessel. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable us to operate them profitably for the remainder of their useful life. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 10 We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if one of our vessels is involved in an accident We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, including environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We carry insurance against loss of hire as well. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions, which although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel and commencing foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay a substantial sum of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Our operations expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and conduct our operations globally. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and West Africa. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the United States' continuing response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world commercial markets, including the energy markets. The conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbance around the world, which may contribute to further instability, including in the oil markets. The likelihood of acts of terrorism in the Middle East region and Southeast Asia may increase as shown by the attempted attacks on the Basra Oil Terminal in April 2004 and the attacks on employees of Exxon in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, in early May 2004, and our vessels trading in those areas may face a higher risk of being attacked. Future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. 11 A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. Through the end of the third quarter of 2008, China's gross domestic product was approximately 2.3% lower than it was during the same period in 2007, and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken; with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Because we generate nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but incur some of our expenses in Danish Kroner and other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations In 2008, we generated nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incurred approximately 85% of our expenses in U.S dollars and approximately 12% was incurred in Danish Kroner. A change in exchange rates could lead to fluctuations in our reported net income. 12 Interest rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility in LIBOR, may significantly affect our loan payments, which could adversely affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow As of December 31, 2008, 91% of our loans bore interest at floating rates. Increases in prevailing rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by much of our outstanding indebtedness fluctuates with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, we had entered into interest swap agreements expiring between 2009 and 2013 for approximately 36% of the then outstanding principal amounts of our loans, that may mitigate some of our exposure to the risk of rising interest rates. However, increases in interest rates will increase our payments under loans not covered by caps of the interest rates of our loans and swap agreements and may negatively affect our earnings and cash flow. Because we are a non-U.S. corporation, you may not have the same rights that a creditor of a U.S. corporation may have Our investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. In addition, the executive officers and administrative activities and assets of the Company are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against the Company in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against our officers, our directors and us We are a Danish company and our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets and the assets of our officers, directors and experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing any judgments obtained in U.S. courts to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgments. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Denmark would (1) enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our officers and directors predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal or state securities laws, or (2) entertain original actions brought in Danish courts against us or our officers and directors predicated on United States federal or state securities laws. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against our directors, officers and non-U.S. experts. There may be no active public market for you to resell our ADSs The price of our ADSs may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the industry; · changes in government regulation; · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. Historically, the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for ADSs in the shipping industry may be equally volatile. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange is smaller and less liquid than the major securities exchanges or markets in the United States. The trading volume of our shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange has been volatile. It may be hard to predict future trading levels or volatility. Consequently, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. 13 Holders of ADSs may experience delays in receiving information and materials not experienced by our common shareholders The ADSs are securities that have been issued by a depository with whom we have deposited our common shares. The depository is responsible for distributing notices and voting materials to holders of the ADSs. If there is any delay in such distributions on the part of the depository, you may not receive such dividends or materials concurrently with holders of our common shares in Denmark, and may not receive such materials in time for you to instruct the depository to vote. You may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive when the dividend was approved Under Danish law, the board of directors proposes dividends and the shareholders vote whether to accept the proposal or to lower the dividend. We will pay any dividends in Danish Kroner to our depository agent for the ADSs, and our depository agent will convert the amounts into U.S. dollars at the relevant exchange rate and distribute the dividend to you. If the Danish Kroner depreciates against the U.S. dollar before our depository agent distributes the dividend, you may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive at the time the dividend was approved by shareholders. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code or under the terms of a tax-treaty with the United States. We expect that our Danish subsidiaries will qualify for tax exemption under the tax treaty between the United States and Denmark. However, our non-Danish subsidiaries may not qualify for exemption under Section 883 for the 2008 taxable year unless we are able to obtain certain certifications from our shareholders. As of the date of this filing, we have not been able to obtain these certifications, although we intend to continue our efforts. If we are unable to obtain these certifications, our non-Danish subsidiaries would be subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income derived during our 2008 taxable year. We can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ''passive income'' or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ''passive income.'' For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ''passive income.'' U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 14 Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our ADSs, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our ADSs. 