Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to TORM's business as well as the industry in which TORM operates. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of TORM's American Depository Shares, or ADSs. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect TORM's business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of TORM's common shares and ADSs. Risks related to TORM's Restructuring, Financial Results and Financial Resources If the depressed market conditions of 2011 and 2012 continue, TORM may be in breach of certain financial covenants contained in its Financing Agreements. In connection with the completion of the Restructuring (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company") TORM entered into the Financing Agreements (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company"), which include restrictions on TORM's financial flexibility. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a more detailed discussion of the Restructuring and TORM's working capital. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is required to comply with financial and other covenants, including requirements that TORM maintain (i) minimum liquidity levels; (ii) minimum loan to value ratios; (iii) maximum net leverage ratios; and (iv) minimum interest coverage ratios. While there has been a modest improvement in the market conditions at the end of 2012 and beginning of 2013, if the difficult market conditions experienced during 2011 and 2012 continue, TORM may not continue to be in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in both the Super Senior Working Capital Facility (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company") and the loan facilities governed by the Framework Agreement (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company"). In case a breach of covenants becomes apparent, TORM plans to initiate renegotiations with the Secured Lenders (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company") to obtain the necessary waivers and amendments. Such renegotiations, if initiated, may be lengthy and there is no certainty that TORM will obtain the necessary waivers and amendments. Ultimately, if TORM is unable to reach new agreements with the Secured Lenders and other creditors, TORM could be forced to enter into bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. 4 Failure to comply with the financial covenants under the Financing Agreements would constitute an event of default under the Financing Agreements, which would provide the lenders with the right to accelerate the debt thereunder and, if such debt were accelerated, TORM's creditors may decide to exercise their rights in the charged assets. If TORM is unable to honor such accelerated payment obligations, it could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position, and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. As of December 31, 2012, TORM was in compliance with all of the covenants under the Financing Agreements. If depressed market conditions prevail, TORM may not be able to meet its ongoing operations and working capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing in the future on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. In connection with completion of the Restructuring, TORM has obtained a Super Senior Working Capital Facility of USD 100 million. USD 58 million of the Super Senior Working Capital Facility was drawn year end 2012. The Super Senior Working Capital Facility matures on September 30, 2014. If market conditions decline further, the undrawn amount of the Super Senior Working Capital Facility may not be enough to secure TORM's ongoing operations and working capital needs, and, pursuant to the terms of TORM's Financing Agreements, TORM is prohibited from taking on further indebtedness and issuing new capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that TORM will be able to attract the capital required to secure TORM's ongoing operations after the Super Senior Working Capital Facility expires or that such capital can be raised on terms acceptable to TORM. Furthermore, TORM recognizes that its financial position impacts its risk profile in relation to third parties, including its ability to obtain or renew credit lines from suppliers and its relationships with customers and other stakeholders. The Company may risk that its financial position will be under additional pressure due to potential cuts in credit lines increasing its working capital requirements resulting in higher financial needs. This is particularly important with bunker credit lines. There can be no assurance that TORM will be able to maintain or obtain required loan financing or meet the additional working capital needs. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on TORM's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position, and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. TORM's financial and operational flexibility is restricted as a result of the Restructuring. In connection with the completion of the Restructuring, TORM entered into the Financing Agreements, which include restrictions on TORM's financial and operational flexibility. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is required to comply with certain covenants restricting its financial and operational flexibility, including: · a prohibition on TORM's ability to incur further indebtedness and issue new capital; · a prohibition on TORM's ability to enter into new derivative transactions other than spot exchange contracts in the ordinary course of business; · a prohibition on TORM's ability to provide additional collateral as security for its indebtedness; · restrictions on TORM's ability to dispose of any vessels and other material assets and to acquire of any company, securities or vessels; and · restrictions on time charters. TORM can only charter-in vessels from third parties for a period no longer than three months and charter-out its vessels for a period of up to 13 months. Such restrictions may make it necessary for TORM to perform transactions, which are not commercially or financially attractive, or to refrain from performing transactions which are commercially or financially attractive. These restrictions may limit TORM's ability to apply its cash and cash equivalents in discharge of its obligations. Furthermore, the restrictions may reduce TORM's competitiveness and TORM's ability to optimize its fleet and financial structure. Specifically, the prohibition of derivative transactions can expose TORM to negative variations on interest rates, foreign exchange and freight rates. Failure to comply with the financial and operational restrictions under the Financing Agreements may result in an event of default under the Financing Agreements unless waived by lenders, which would provide the lenders the right to accelerate the outstanding debt thereunder and, in the event of such acceleration, TORM's creditors may decide to exercise their rights in the charged assets. As such, the restrictions on TORM's financial and operational flexibility could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. 5 Certain of TORM's vessels are subject to option rights, the exercise of which may have an adverse effect on TORM's business and financial results and may impact TORM's ability to comply with the financial covenants under its Financing Agreements. The Framework Agreement between TORM and its Secured Lenders contains individual option rights for the lenders under three bank facilities having financed thirteen, five and four vessels, respectively, out of TORM's total fleet of 67 owned and finance leased vessels. The options give the lenders under each of the relevant bank facilities a right to require the sale of the vessels being financed by the relevant facilities. Under the options, the Company is required to propose a sales strategy for the vessels subject to the options. The lenders under each of the bank facilities have the right, until July 31, 2014 with certain possibilities of extension, to exercise their options, which may lead to disposal of the vessels financed by the relevant facility. The lenders under the bank facility financing the five vessels have exercised their option and thus initiated the sales process set out in the Framework Agreement. As of December 31, 2012 these five vessels were classified as non-current assets held for sale, and as such, the carrying amount was impaired by USD 74 million as the carrying amount is measured on the basis of fair value less costs to sell. The total outstanding debt relating to the bank facility financing the five vessels as of December 31, 2012 was USD 121 million. The book value for the five vessels was USD 134 million as of December 31, 2012, which was equal to the market value based on broker valuations less costs to sell. The average age of the five vessels was two years as of the Restructuring. The total outstanding debt relating to the bank facilities financing the thirteen vessels was USD 223 million as of the December 31, 2012 and the total outstanding debt relating to the bank facilities financing the four vessels was USD 107 million as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the book value for the thirteen vessels was USD 283 million and the book value for the four vessels was USD 182 million. The market value based on broker valuations was USD 210 million for the thirteen vessels and USD 116 million for the four vessels as of December 31, 2012. The average age of the thirteen vessels was 10 years and the average age of the four vessels was one year as of December 31, 2012. Should any sale of vessels be effected as a result of the exercise of the options discussed above, the earning capability of the Company may be materially negatively affected. In addition, any sale of vessels under the options may have an adverse effect on TORM's business and financial results, including TORM's liquidity, outstanding debt, fleet value, consolidated net debt, accrued interest and EBITDA (as defined under the agreement for covenant purposes) and may impact TORM's ability to comply with the financial covenants under its Financing Agreements. Sale of vessels as a result of exercise of the options may also result in an increase of the average age of TORM's fleet, reduce TORM's competitive scale advantage, further restrict its operational flexibility, expose TORM further to negative development in vessel values, and could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. TORM may not be able to meet its debt service requirements with respect to its interest-bearing debt. TORM must dedicate a large part of its cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on its interest-bearing debt. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. TORM's existing bank debt level of USD 1,904 million as of December 31, 2012, compared to an estimated market value (based on broker valuations) of USD 1,284 million of TORM's fleet, excluding finance lease vessels, as of December 31, 2012 makes TORM vulnerable to economic slowdowns and adverse developments in its business. The Super Senior Working Capital Facility matures on September 30, 2014. If TORM's earnings do not improve, TORM may not be able to repay the principal upon maturity of the loan. 6 In addition, under the Financing Agreements, the Company is subject to a cash sweep clause of certain aggregate amounts of cash above USD 50 million. Annualized debt repayments of USD 100 million fall due from September 30, 2014 until December 31, 2016. TORM may not be able to service and repay its interest-bearing debt as it falls due and matures, including at the time of expiration of the periods with deferral of installments and fixed annualized debt repayments. If TORM is not able to service and repay its debt on time, it will result in an event of default under the relevant credit facilities, which could trigger cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions included in other of TORM's credit facilities and would provide the lenders with the right to accelerate the relevant debt and foreclose on all or a portion of TORM's fleet, which would have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position, and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. Transfers of TORM's common shares among the Secured Lenders and Time Charter-in Counterparties may result in a change of control under the Financing Agreements, which would require mandatory prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness under such agreements. The terms of the Financing Agreements provide for mandatory prepayment of the entire outstanding amount thereunder upon any person or group of persons acting in concert to gain direct or indirect control (which is defined under the Financing Agreements as the acquisition of 25% or more of TORM's common shares or voting rights) of the Company. Transfers of TORM's common shares among the Secured Lenders and Time Charter-in Counterparties (as defined in "Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company"), which currently hold an aggregate of approximately 90% of TORM's outstanding common shares, may trigger a mandatory prepayment event under the Financing Agreements. Any mandatory prepayment as a result of a change of control could lead to the foreclosure of all or a portion of TORM's fleet and could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, result of operations, cash flows and financial position, and could lead to bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. The majority of TORM's outstanding common shares are held by a limited number of shareholders, which may create conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2012, more than 90% of TORM's outstanding common shares were held by a limited number of shareholders, including but not limited to the Secured Lenders and Time Charter-in Counterparties. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with the interests of the Company's other shareholders. In addition, conflicts of interests may exist or occur between the major shareholders themselves. A limited number of shareholders may have the ability, either acting alone or together as a group, to influence or determine the outcome of specific matters submitted to the Company's shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to the Company's articles of association, including changes to the Company's authorized share capital or any merger or acquisition. TORM is currently prohibited from paying dividends in respect of its common shares. Following the completion of the Restructuring, TORM must dedicate a large part of its cash flows to reimburse the interest-bearing debt under the Financing Agreements. In addition, the Financing Agreements prohibit TORM from using future earnings to pay dividends to its shareholders. After the restructured credit facilities are reimbursed, TORM may decide to review its dividend policy, however its ability to pay dividends in the future may be limited. TORM's ability to raise funds in the equity capital markets is restricted, among other things, by the fact that TORM is currently prohibited from issuing additional common shares. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is prohibited from issuing additional common shares or other securities. This restriction limits TORM's ability to raise funds in the equity capital markets. In addition, TORM's shareholders have approved an amendment to TORM's articles of association, pursuant to which future issuances of common shares against the conversion of debt or without pre-emptive rights to existing shareholders will require the consent of shareholders representing 90% of the Company's outstanding share capital and voting rights, which may also limit TORM's ability to raise funds in the equity capital markets. The above restrictions could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 7 TORM's ability to enter into derivative transactions is limited as a result of the Restructuring, which will limit TORM's ability to hedge their exposure in various transactions. All of TORM's interest rate and currency swap transactions were closed-out as part of the Restructuring. Existing bunker hedging and Forward Freight Agreements, or FFAs, will remain in place, but TORM will not be able to enter into new derivative transactions. As a result TORM's entire debt is now uncovered in relation to interest and currency risks, and TORM will not be able to enter into new derivative transactions to hedge its other exposures e.g. in relation to bunkers. Any changes in interest rates, currency rates, bunker prices and other prices to which TORM is exposed could therefore have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is required to limit its derivative trading to spot exchange contracts in the ordinary course of business. There will be a risk of loss resulting from the spot hedging TORM engages in and existing bunker hedging and FFAs going forward. TORM may in the future obtain consent to invest in other derivative instruments (e.g. currency or interest rate hedging) and may on that basis decide to recommence its hedging activities in such derivatives and could suffer losses from such positions which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Decreasing liquidity in the derivative market may limit TORM's ability to conduct spot commodity hedging. In the past, TORM has taken positions in derivative instruments to hedge the risk on certain parts of TORM's business. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is only allowed to enter spot commodity hedging arrangements in the ordinary course of business. If liquidity in these derivative markets decreases or disappears it could make it difficult or more expensive for TORM to obtain such hedging, which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Further impairment losses may lead to negative book equity value and a possible reduction in earnings. TORM reviews the carrying amounts of assets on a quarterly basis to determine any indication of impairment either due to a significant decline in market value or in the cash flows generated by the vessels. In case of such indication, the recoverable amounts of the assets are estimated at the higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value in use in accordance with the requirements of the IFRS accounting standards. The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to derive from an asset or cash generating units. For the purpose of assessing fair value less cost to sell, management estimates the market values of the individual vessels, for which the most important parameters are the vessels' tons deadweight, the shipyard they were built at and age. management uses internal as well as external sources of information, including two internationally recognized shipbrokers' valuations. Based on broker valuations, TORM's fleet excluding product tankers held for sale had a market value of USD 1,159 million as of December 31, 2012. This is USD 790 million less than the book value as of December 31, 2012. The book value of TORM's equity was USD 267 million as of December 31, 2012. In accordance with the requirements of the IFRS accounting standards TORM estimates the fleet's total long-term earning potential each quarter based on future discounted cash flows. The estimated value for the fleet as of December 31, 2012 supports the book value. As of December 31, 2012, management performed a review of the recoverable amount of the assets by assessing the recoverable amount for the significant assets within TORM's tanker and bulk divisions and TORM's investment in 50% in the shipping company FR8 Holdings Ptd. Ltd, or FR8, a company currently in liquidation. Based on the review, management concluded: · Assets within the Company's bulk division, or the Bulk Division, were not impaired as the net selling price exceeded the carrying amount by USD 3 million; 8 · Assets within the tanker division, or the Tanker Division, were not further impaired as the value in use was equal to the carrying amount; and · The carrying amount of the investment in 50% of FR8 was during 2012 impaired by USD 42 million to USD 0 in addition to the impairment losses previously recognized. In case the market conditions do not improve in order to sustain the current 10-year historic average spot freight rates, the Company may have to make further impairments of the assets. It should be emphasized that in a forced sale the recoverable amount of the vessels would be significantly lower than the carrying amount of the vessels under a going concern assumption. If the fair value less cost to sell of TORM's vessels or the fleets earning potential decline, it may lead to impairment losses being recognized in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, if TORM sells one or more of its vessels, the selling price may be less than the vessel's carrying value on the financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. TORM may in the future need to record additional impairment losses, and loss from sale of vessels which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Variations in incoming cash flows may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Due to the cyclical nature of the shipping industry and volatile freight rates, incoming cash flows may vary significantly from year to year whereas the outgoing cash flows may not be variable to the same extent and at the same time. Significant deviations between ingoing and outgoing cash flows can thus damage the financial position of TORM and could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM's operating results may be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM operates in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in freight rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in operating results. The tanker segment is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere. As a result, revenues from product tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ending June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ending December 31 and March 31. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere. As a result, drybulk revenues may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ending June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ending December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Potential new accounting rules with respect to leases may materially affect TORM's balance sheet. The International Accounting Standards Board is currently working on revising a number of financial reporting standards including IAS 17 Leases. The current exposure draft for a new international financial reporting standard on leases proposes that all leases entered with duration of more than one year shall be recognized as an asset with a corresponding lease liability being recognized under liabilities. It is currently not known if and when the revised standard will be become effective. TORM's balance sheet could be materially impacted by the new standard on leases. This could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Risks Related to TORM's Activities TORM's revenue is subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in spot freight rates. TORM employs the majority of its vessels on spot voyage charters or short-term time charters. As of December 31, 2012, TORM generated 89% of its revenues from the spot market. Accordingly, TORM is impacted by any increase or decrease in market rates. If rates were to decrease further or continue at current low levels, it could have a material adverse impact on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 9 TORM depends upon a few significant customers for a large part of its revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect its financial performance. TORM's top ten customers accounted for 42% of its consolidated revenues in 2012 (2011:35%). The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM has a recent history of losses and may not be able to achieve or sustain positive cash flows or profitability in the future. TORM had net losses of USD 581 million, USD 453 million, USD 135 million and USD 17 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Despite implementation of the Restructuring Agreement and the amendments to its Pre-Restructuring Debt Facilities (as defined in "Item 4 Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company") and Time Charter-in Counterparty contracts, TORM cannot be certain to be able to achieve or sustain positive cash flows or profitability from its operations. Its ability to achieve positive cash flows is subject to financial, regulatory, legal, technical and other factors, many of which are beyond its control. The age of TORM's current fleet and TORM's inability to replace older vessels with younger ones vessels may adversely affect TORM's competitive position and results of operations. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is prohibited from acquiring vessels, including second-hand vessels. As a result of weak markets and rising fuel prices and thereby the implied need to focus on cost-optimizing measures, delivery of new and more fuel efficient vessels into the market could be expected. The continuing increase of the average age of TORM's fleet, which was 7 years as of December 31, 2012, the sale of young vessels upon the exercise of certain option rights granted to certain of TORM's lenders, the potential entry of more fuel efficient vessels into the market and the limited ability of the Company to renew its fleet could have a material adverse effect on TORM's competitive position, future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. An increasing cost base may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. General administrative expenses and vessel operating expenses depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond TORM's control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance, crewing and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. An increasing cost base may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM is subject to certain risks with respect to its counterparties, including under its hedging contracts, Contracts of Affreightment, fixed rate time charters and voyage charters, and failure of these counterparties to meet their obligations could cause TORM to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect its business. TORM has entered into bunker hedging contracts and employs vessels on Contracts of Affreightment, or COAs, fixed rate time charters and voyage charters. Such contracts expose TORM to counterparty risks. The ability of counterparties to live up to the obligations under a contract with TORM will depend on a number of factors that are beyond TORM's control and may include general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. In addition, in depressed market conditions, charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements, TORM could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 10 TORM may not have adequate insurance to compensate it if one of its vessels is involved in an accident. In the course of the fleet's operation, various casualties, accidents and other incidents may occur that may result in financial losses for TORM. For example, national and international rules, regulations and conventions mean that TORM may incur substantial liabilities in the event that a vessel is involved in an oil spill or emission of other environmentally hazardous agents. In order to reduce the exposure to these risks, the fleet is insured against such risks as deemed appropriate by Management. The total insurance package comprises cover of risk in relation to the operation of vessels and transportation of cargoes, including personal injury, environmental damage and pollution, cargo damage, third-party casualty and liability, hull and engine damage, total loss and war. Incidents may occur where TORM's insurance package will not cover or will not adequately cover costs and/or losses, and insurance cover may not be available for some risks. Furthermore, insurance costs may rise as a consequence of unforeseen incidents, and might be affected by events beyond TORM's control. Incidents for which TORM has not taken or cannot take out adequate insurance, or events causing the insurance premiums to rise, could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Breakdowns in TORM's information technology may negatively impact TORM's ability to service customers. TORM's ability to service customers and operate vessels is dependent on the continued operation of its information technology, or IT, systems critical to the business, including a vessel operation system containing information about vessel positions, TORM's agreements with customers and other agreements made in the market, the system recording estimated and actual hire for individual voyages, the vessel maintenance system and the Enterprise Resource Planning system. Any IT breakdowns can have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM may be exposed to fraudulent behavior, which may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The risk of fraud is inherent in all industries and is not specific to the shipping industry. However, historically, the shipping industry has involved an increased risk of fraud and fraudulent behavior. TORM has established a system of internal controls to prevent fraud and fraudulent behavior, consisting of segregation of duties, authorizations for trading, purchase and approval, codes of ethics and conduct, close monitoring of TORM's financial position and a whistleblower facility. However, TORM cannot be certain that it will not be exposed to fraud or fraudulent behavior, and any such behavior can have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Because TORM is a non-U.S. corporation, you may not have the same rights that a creditor of a U.S. corporation may have and it may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a U.S. judgment against TORM's officers and directors and TORM. TORM is a Danish company and its executive offices are located outside of the United States. TORM's officers and directors and some of the experts named in this document reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of TORM's assets and the assets of TORM's officers, directors and experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing any judgments obtained in U.S. courts to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgments. In addition, original actions or actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts with respect to civil liabilities solely under the federal securities laws of the United States are not enforceable in Denmark. TORM may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce its earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as TORM and its subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code or under the terms of a U.S. income tax treaty. TORM expects that its Danish subsidiaries will qualify for tax exemption under the income tax treaty between the United States and Denmark. However, TORM's non-Danish subsidiaries may not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for the 2012 taxable year unless it is able to obtain certain certifications from its shareholders. As of the date of this filing, TORM has not been able to obtain these certifications. If TORM is unable to obtain these certifications, its non-Danish subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on TORM's U.S. source income derived during the 2012 taxable year. TORM can give no assurances on its tax-exempt status or that of any of its subsidiaries. 11 If TORM or its subsidiaries are not entitled to the exemption under the income tax treaty between the United States and Denmark and/or exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, TORM or its subsidiaries would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on TORM's U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on TORM's business. U.S. tax authorities could treat TORM as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ''passive income'' or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets during such taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of ''passive income.'' For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ''passive income.'' U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to certain reporting obligations and a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on TORM's current and proposed method of operation, it does not believe that it is, has been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, TORM intends to treat the gross income it derives or are deemed to derive from its time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, TORM believes that its income from its time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that it owns and operates in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce or are held for the production of "passive income". There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing TORM's proposed method of operation. TORM believes there is substantial legal authority supporting TORM's position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, TORM notes that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept TORM's position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that TORM is a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that TORM would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of its operations. If the IRS were to find that TORM is or has been a PFIC for any taxable year, its U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences and will incur certain information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse tax consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of TORM's ADSs, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of TORM's ADSs. Risks Related to the Industry in which TORM Operates If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will have an adverse impact on TORM's operations and financial results. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. The world economy is currently facing a number of new challenges, including uncertainty related to the European credit crisis and recent turmoil and hostilities in Korea, the Middle East and other geographic areas and countries. The deterioration in the global economy has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on the worldwide demand for certain goods and thus shipping. The continued economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and certain Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth globally. 12 TORM faces risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Market disruptions and any adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect its business or impair its ability to make any future financial arrangements. TORM cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these economic and governmental factors, including reform of the financial system, could have a material adverse impact on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on TORM's business, financial condition and results of operations. TORM's industry is highly dependent on imports and exports from China and any changes in policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken; with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could have a material adverse impact on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The product tanker and drybulk vessel sectors are cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility in TORM's charter rates when it re-charters its vessels, in vessel values and in TORM's results of operations. The product tanker and drybulk vessel markets are cyclical leading to volatility in freight rates, vessel values and industry profitability. The freight rates among different types of product tankers and drybulk vessels are highly volatile. For example, tanker freight rates have declined from historical highs reached in mid-2008, and the decline in freight rates for drybulk vessels has been even more pronounced, reaching near historically low levels in 2012. Factors affecting the supply and growth of product tankers and drybulk vessels are: · the number of newbuildings on order and being delivered; · the number of vessels used for floating storage; · the number of vessels in lay-up; · the number of vessels scrapped for obsolescence or subject to casualties; · prevailing and expected future freight and charter hire rates; · costs of bunkers, fuel oil, and other operating costs; · the efficiency and age of the world product tanker and global drybulk fleets; · shipyard capacity; 13 · port congestion and canal congestion; and · government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. Demand for product tankers and drybulk vessels is primarily determined by the quantity of cargo to be transported and the distance from origin to destination. The demand is affected by a number of external factors including: · world and regional economic conditions; · oil demand; · demand for bulk commodities (e.g., steel, agricultural products and coal); · oil price curve (influencing the level of floating storage); · product imbalances (affecting the level of trading activity); · the regulatory environment; · environmental issues and concerns; · developments in international trade; · climate; · competition from alternative energy sources; · armed conflicts; and · availability of financing and developments with interest rates. All things being equal assuming there are no changes to our fleet composition, based on our maximum potential earning days for 2013 open as of December 31, 2012 or 24,676 earnings days, a change of USD/day of 1,000 in freight rates will currently impact the profit before tax by approx. USD 25 million. As of December 31, 2012, TORM had covered 8% of the remaining earning days in 2013 in its Tanker Division at USD/day 15,126 and 2% of the remaining earning days in its Bulk Division at USD/day 13,155. As such, a change in freight rates can have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Delayed recovery in the product tanker and drybulk vessel charter markets may have an adverse effect on TORM's earnings and ability to comply with the covenants contained in its Financing Agreements. If a sustained freight rate recovery in the product tanker and drybulk vessel markets is not experienced in the near-term, it could lead to breaches of certain financial covenants included in TORM's Financing Agreements. Any such delayed recovery in the product tanker and drybulk vessel charter markets could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. As of December 31, 2012, TORM was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Financing Agreements. Because the market value of its vessels may fluctuate significantly, TORM may incur losses when it sells vessels, which may adversely affect its earnings. The fair value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on, but not limited to, the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; 14 · competition from other shipping companies; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · shipyard capacity; · governmental or other regulations; · age of vessels; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. If we sell any of our product tankers or drybulk vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, including upon exercise of the options that have been granted to certain of our lenders as a result of the Restructuring, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our consolidated financial statements, with the result that we will incur a loss. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in respect of some of our vessels in our consolidated financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the fall in vessel values could also impact on the TORM's compliance with debt covenants. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect TORM's profits. Fuel is a significant expense for TORM's shipping operations, except when vessels are under time charter, in which case the charterer pays the fuel costs. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside TORM's control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. A shift in consumer demand from oil towards other energy sources may have a material adverse effect on TORM's business. The majority of TORM's earnings are related to the oil industry. A shift in the consumer demand from oil towards other energy resources such as wind energy, solar energy, or water energy will potentially affect the demand for TORM's product tankers. This could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM is subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. TORM's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which TORM's vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of TORM's vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA; · the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA; · the U.S Clean Air Act; 15 · the U.S. Clean Water Act; · the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002; · the International Maritime Organization, or IMO; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended by the Protocol of 1992; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, including the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code; · the International Ship and Port Facilities Securities Code, which became effective in 2004; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966; · the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk; · Periodic surveys by classification societies to ensure TORM's vessels are safe and seaworthy; and · Various fuel or emissions standards applicable to vessels operating near the California coastline; operating off the coasts of Atlantic/Gulf and Pacific coasts of the United States and Canada and the Hawaiian Islands; or in EU ports, respectively. Additionally, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. TORM may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of its ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on TORM's business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of TORM's operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject TORM to liability without regard to whether it was negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and that may affect TORM's operations or require TORM to incur additional expenses to comply with such regulatory initiatives or statutes. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. TORM is required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although TORM has arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Failure to comply with customer requirements may adversely affect TORM's business and results of operations. In addition to official laws and regulations set out by governments and industry organizations, TORM will be subject to strict requirements, primarily related to safety procedures and environment protection, set forth by its customers, such as large oil companies. Customers continuously perform inspections of vessels and headquarters (vettings) to ensure compliance with the requirements. Failure to comply with the requirements may disqualify TORM as a carrier of the customer's cargo, which may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Failure of TORM's vessels to pass vessel inspections by classification societies would render the vessels. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. Classification societies are non-governmental, self-regulating organizations and certify that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo various surveys. A vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. The Company's vessels are on survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every five years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. In addition, every five years, alternating with the dry-docked inspection, there is a special survey for every vessel allowing an inspection/survey every two and a half years. If any vessel fails any survey the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable, which may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM's vessels may be damaged due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and TORM may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect its business and financial condition. The Company's vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to its customer relationships, delay or rerouting. The protection & indemnity, or P&I, insurance coverage that TORM has arranged for its vessels covers the vessel owner's liabilities towards the owner of any damaged cargo, subject to standard international conventions limiting such liability. If its vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. TORM may have to pay drydocking costs that its insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease its earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. The Company may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or its vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to its vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Possible amendments to tonnage tax schemes could increase the overall tax liability of TORM, which may adversely affect TORM's business and financial condition. The Company is currently subject to tonnage tax schemes in a number of countries. If the entities' participation in the Danish tonnage tax scheme is abandoned, or if the entities' level of investment and activity is significantly reduced, a deferred tax liability will become payable. In the event that tonnage tax schemes are changed in the future, it could increase the overall tax burden of the Company, and could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect TORM's business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, the West African Coast and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2012 to its lowest level since 2009, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which TORM's vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. TORM may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on TORM. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against the Company's vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for its vessels, could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 17 TORM's vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect TORM's reputation and the market for its securities. From time to time, TORM may operate in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U. S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. The U. S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expanded the application of the prohibitions to additional activities of companies such as TORM's, and introduced limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In 2012, Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions was signed. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the U.S. including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions, was signed into law. Among other things, the act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure and technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The act also includes a provision that states in part that, if a person is transporting crude oil from Iran or transporting refined petroleum products to Iran, that person's vessels could be barred from landing at U.S. ports for up to two years. There is a risk that from time to time TORM will not be in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact TORM's ability to access U.S capital markets and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in TORM. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, TORM's common shares or TORM's ADSs may adversely affect the price at which TORM's securities trade. In addition, TORM's reputation and the market for TORM's securities may be adversely affected if TORM engages in certain other activities, such as entering into contracts with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of TORM's securities may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. As such TORM's operation in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U. S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism and any non-compliance with sanctions and embargoes imposed could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Political instability, terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect TORM's business. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect TORM's business. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Syria, and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in the Middle East, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 18 Governments could requisition TORM's vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize TORM's vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition TORM's vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated freight rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. As of the date of this annual report, none of TORM's vessels have been requisitioned by a government for title or hire; however, government requisition of one or more of TORM's vessels could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Risks Related to TORM's Employees TORM may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate its business. The ability to recruit and retain qualified employees is important to TORM. There can be no assurance that TORM will be able to attract and retain such employees on reasonable terms in the future. TORM's ability to attract and retain employees in the future may be affected by the reduction of TORM's fleet as a result of the Restructuring, TORMs restricted operational flexibility and TORMs financial position. Furthermore, TORM employs staff in a number of countries and the crew on its vessels, all of which are covered by international rules of employment. Changes are made on an ongoing basis to international rules of employment and this may have a material influence on TORM's liberty to man vessels. If TORM is not able to attract and retain qualified employees on reasonable terms in the future, and/or if changes are made to international rules of employment, influencing TORM's liberty to man vessels, it could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance to cover liability for industrial injuries that may occur in the ordinary course of TORM's business. TORM has from time to time been involved in legal proceedings relating to injuries incurred by employees while working for TORM and there is a risk that TORM in the future will be a party to such proceedings. If it is not possible to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage for its liabilities related to industrial injuries, including if insurance coverage cannot be obtained on reasonable terms, or if the insurance coverage is insufficient, TORM may incur substantial liabilities and/or costs, and this could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Industrial disputes resulting in work stoppages, strikes and/or work disruptions may adversely affect TORM's business. TORM has in the past implemented and will potentially continue in the future to implement Restructuring measures including divesting or closing down business activities, reducing its workforce and negotiating collective agreements with trade unions. In particular, Restructurings, but also other factors such as disagreements concerning ordinary or extraordinary collective bargaining, may damage TORM's reputation and the relationship with its employees and lead to labor disputes, including work stoppages, strikes and/or work disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Risks Related to Currency and Interest Rate Risks Because TORM generates nearly all of its revenues in U.S. dollars, but incurs some of its expenses in Danish Kroner and other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect TORM's results of operations. TORM uses U.S. Dollars, or USD, as the functional currency because the majority of the Company's transactions are denominated in USD. Thus the Company's exchange rate risk is related to cash flows not denominated in USD. The primary risk relates to transactions denominated in Danish Kroner, or DKK, Euros, or EUR, Japanese Yen and other major currencies, and relates to administrative and operating expenses. 19 In 2012, TORM generated nearly all of its revenues in USD but incurred approximately 89% of its expenses in USD, approximately 8% in DKK and the remaining balance in EUR, Japanese Yen and other major currencies. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is no longer allowed to hedge its foreign currency exposure. A change in exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Interest rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility in LIBOR, may significantly affect TORM's loan payments, which could adversely affect TORM's profitability, earnings and cash flow. As of December 31, 2012, all of TORM's bank debt of USD 1,904 million bore interest rates fluctuating with LIBOR. Under the Financing Agreements, TORM is not allowed to hedge its interest rate exposure. If LIBOR were to increase, it would increase the amount of interest payable on the debt, which could a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Risks Related to Litigation TORM may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in its favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on TORM. TORM and its activities are subject to both Danish and foreign laws and regulations many of which include legal standards, which are subject to interpretation, and TORM is party to agreements and transactions, including in connection with the Restructuring, involving matters of assessment of interests of various stakeholders and valuation of assets, liabilities and contractual rights and obligations. Furthermore, TORM may be subject to the jurisdiction of courts or arbitration tribunals in many different jurisdictions. TORM's counterparties and other stakeholders or authorities may dispute the Company's compliance with laws and regulations or contractual undertakings, or the assessments made by the Company in connection with its business and the entry into agreements or transactions. The outcome of any such dispute or legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, and may include payment of substantial amounts in legal fees and damages or that a transaction or agreement is deemed invalid or voidable and such proceedings or decisions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. TORM is currently involved in a general investigation by the Danish tax authorities which have carried out a control visit relating to the application of withholding taxes in connection with dividend distributions. The control visit was conducted by the Danish tax authorities as part of a wider campaign aimed at Danish companies who have paid dividends to entities in European low tax jurisdictions. No claims have been raised by the Danish tax authorities as of the date of this annual report. If a claim is raised by the Danish tax authorities as a result of such investigation or other cases or proceedings the Company may be involved in now or in the future is determined to TORM's disadvantage, it may result in fines, default under the Financing Agreements, damages or reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Maritime claimants could arrest TORM's vessels, which could interrupt TORM's operations, resulting in a loss of earnings. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, Secured Lenders, Time Charter-in counterparties and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel and commencing foreclosure proceedings. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in the fleet for claims relating to another of TORM's vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of TORM's vessels could interrupt operations and require TORM to pay a substantial sum of money to have the arrest lifted, which could result in a loss of earnings and have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 20 Risks related to TORM's American Depository Shares TORM's ADSs may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of TORM's ADSs. TORM's ADSs are currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or Nasdaq. TORM's ability to retain its listing is contingent upon compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. The listing standards of Nasdaq provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if the bid price of its stock decreases below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days and the company is unable to meet the minimum bid requirement within the period provided by Nasdaq. In December 2011, TORM was notified by Nasdaq that it was no longer in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because the closing bid price of its ADSs for 30 consecutive business days had been below the minimum $1.00 per share bid price requirement for continued listing on Nasdaq. In response, TORM conducted a change in the ratio of its ADSs to its common shares from 1:1 to 1:10, which was effective as of November 2012. TORM regained compliance during December 2012 when, during the applicable grace period, the closing bid price of its common stock was at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. TORM is currently in compliance with all applicable Nasdaq listing standards Further declines in the trading price of TORM's ADSs may cause it to fail to meet certain of Nasdaq's continuing listing standards in the future, which could result in the delisting of its ADSs. In addition, at the Company's Annual General Meeting held on April 11, 2013, the Company's shareholders voted to authorize the Company to terminate its American Depositary Receipt program and allow the Company to acquire a limited number of its own shares as well as delist the Company's ADSs from Nasdaq and deregister the Company's securities under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the result of which would be that there would no longer be an active public market for the ADSs and the Company would no longer be subject to Exchange Act reporting requirements. If TORM's ADSs cease to be traded on the Nasdaq or on another national securities exchange, you may not have a fully liquid market in which to sell them. Therefore, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. There may be no active public market for you to resell TORM's ADSs, and to the extent there is, the price of TORM's ADSs may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in TORM's financial results; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the industry; · changes in government regulation; · fluctuations in TORM's quarterly revenues and earnings and those of TORM's publicly held competitors; · shortfalls in TORM's operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning TORM or its competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. Historically, the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for ADSs in the shipping industry may be equally volatile. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange is smaller and less liquid than the major securities exchanges or markets in the United States. The trading volume of TORM's common shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange has been volatile. It may be hard to predict future trading levels or volatility. Consequently, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. 21 Holders of TORM's ADSs may experience delays in receiving information and materials not experienced by TORM's common shareholders. The ADSs are securities that have been issued by a depository with whom TORM has deposited its common shares. The depository is responsible for distributing notices and voting materials to holders of the ADSs. If there is any delay in such distributions on the part of the depository, you may not receive such dividends or materials concurrently with holders of TORM's common shares in Denmark, and may not receive such materials in time for you to instruct the depository to vote. 