D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our American Depository Shares or ADSs. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to our Industry The continuing worldwide economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. In recent years, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. At times, lower demand for petroleum and drybulk cargoes as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such cargoes have led to decreased demand for product tankers and drybulk vessels, creating downward pressure on charter rates. General market volatility has resulted from uncertainty about sovereign debt and fears of countries such as Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy defaulting on their governments' financial obligations and uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East, recent tensions in North Africa and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could adversely affect the economies of the United States and those of other countries. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or operate our vessels profitably; and · the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 2 The product tanker and drybulk vessel sectors are cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, in vessel values and in our results of operations. The product tanker and drybulk vessel sectors are cyclical with volatility in charter rates and industry profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of product tankers and drybulk vessels has varied widely. For example, tanker charter rates have declined from historical highs reached in mid-2008, and the decline in charter rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk vessels has been even more pronounced, reaching near historically low levels in 2012. If we enter into charters when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations or pay dividends. The factors affecting the supply and demand for product tankers and drybulk vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: · demand for and production of crude oil, refined petroleum products and drybulk products; · the distance cargo is to be moved by sea; · changes in oil production and refining capacity; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced, oil is refined and cargoes are used; and · weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the vessel casualties; · the price of steel; · number of vessels that are out of service; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and · port or canal congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the world's product tanker and drybulk vessel fleets, and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the shipping sectors in which we operate, but the demand for vessel capacity in these sectors does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Given the large number of new vessels currently on order with shipyards, the capacity of the global fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not resume in areas that have experienced a recession or continue in other areas. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. The downturns in the product tanker and drybulk vessel charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. The global product tanker market was marked by the continued tonnage influx in 2011. Demand growth was affected by global economic uncertainty affecting the refined product consumption negatively, a general absence of arbitrage opportunities and events occurring in among others Japan and the Arab countries. 3 The dry bulk market was under pressure, and continued volatility during 2011 due to market adjustments caused by seasonality and the adverse effects of the Japanese earthquake and Australian floodings. Moreover, the net growth of the global bulk fleet reached an unprecedented level in 2011, which negated the growth in demand. As a result, the loss before taxes for the year ended December 31, 2011 on our consolidated income statement was $453 million. If these trends continue, in order for us to remain viable, we may not be able to resume dividend payments and we may have to sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets and/or assume additional indebtedness. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or be limited in the amount of funds that we can borrow, which may adversely affect our earnings. The fair value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on, but not limited to, the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · shipyard capacity; · governmental or other regulations; · age of vessels; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. If we sell any of our product tankers or drybulk vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our consolidated financial statements, with the result that we will incur a loss. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in respect of some of our vessels in our consolidated financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the fall in vessel values could also impact on the Group's compliance with debt covenants which could result in our inability to obtain additional financing. During 2011, TORM reduced its owned fleet by six product tankers: · In January 2011 we entered into an agreement to sell Faja de Oro II. The sale resulted in recognition of a loss of $6 million. · In June 2011 we entered into an agreement for the sale and lease back for TORM Margrethe. The vessel was sold for $46 million. The transaction was treated as a sale with a profit of $8 million · In June 2011 we entered into an agreement for the sale and lease back for TORM Marie. The vessel was sold for $46 million. The transaction was treated as a sale with a profit of $7 million · In June 2011 we entered into an agreement to sell Potrero. The sale resulted in recognition of a loss of $7 million. · In October 2011 we entered into agreements to sell TORM Mette and TORM Marianne. The sales were effected at the carrying value of the vessels, and accordingly, there was no impact on the consolidated income statement. · In November 2011 we entered into an agreement to cancel one MR product tanker, which was scheduled for delivery in 2013. The cancellation resulted in recognition of a loss of $13 million. · In December 2011 we entered into an agreement to sell two Kamsarmax bulk carrier newbuilding contracts. The transaction resulted in recognition of a loss of $41 million. Following the above sales and as of December 31, 2011, our owned fleet consisted of 65.5 product tankers and two dry bulk vessels. 4 Our operating results from our fleet are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results in a given financial period. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. This seasonality could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in the Middle East, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues, costs and ability to pay dividends in amounts anticipated or at all. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although sea piracy worldwide decreased slightly in 2011 for the first time in five years, throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation. We have not entered into, nor do we have any future plans to enter into, any contracts, agreements, or other arrangements with countries identified by United States government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. From time to time, on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. We do not consider the revenues received from these charters to be material to our results of operations. The United States sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the United States enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies, such as ours, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries, even if we have not violated any laws. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Public perception of our business may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 5 Our vessels may be damaged due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. The protection & indemnity, or P&I, insurance coverage that we have arranged for our vessels covers the vessel owner's liabilities towards the owner of any damaged cargo, subject to standard international conventions limiting such liability. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. The instability of the euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. According to the head of the International Monetary Fund as quoted in April 2011, the global economic recovery remains fragile. In addition, the world economy is currently facing a number of new challenges, including uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling and recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. Continuing economic instability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy. Continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Since the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China's growth rate as determined by changes in its gross domestic product, or GDP, has been decreasing. According to industry sources, the growth rate of China's GDP decreased to approximately 9.2% for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to approximately 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2010, and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slower economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our results of operations and ability to grow our fleet would be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. As of December 31, 2011, we have total outstanding indebtedness of USD 1.9 billion under our credit facilities. Major market disruptions and any adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to make any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these economic and governmental factors, including reform of the financial system, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 6 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken; with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA; · the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA; · the U.S Clean Air Act; · the United States Clean Water Act; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended by the Protocol of 1992; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships; · the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, including the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966; · the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002; · the International Ship and Port Facilities Securities Code, which became effective in 2004; · the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk; · Periodic surveys by classification societies to ensure our vessels are safe and seaworthy; and · Various fuel or emissions standards applicable to vessels operating near the California coastline; operating off the coasts of Atlantic/Gulf and Pacific coasts of the United States and Canada and the Hawaiian Islands; or in EU ports, respectively. Additionally, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. 7 Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and that may affect our operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with such regulatory initiatives or statutes. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Risks Relating to our Company If we are unable to enter into definitive documentation of a comprehensive financing and restructuring plan, for which we have entered into a conditional framework agreement with our lenders and major time charter partners, we will not have sufficient liquidity to continue operations throughout 2012. On April 4, 2012, TORM announced that it reached a conditional framework agreement in principle with the bank coordination committee and our major time charter partners regarding a financing and restructuring plan. The plan encompasses the following key elements: · The change in ownership will be implemented through a reduction of the nominal share capital from DKK 5 per share to DKK 0.01 per share and a subsequent capital increase by the banks and time charter partners through conversion of debt and payables. · The banks will make available a revolving credit facility of USD 100 million to cover working capital requirements. The facility will mature in two years. · The banks will defer all installments and repayments of loans until December 2016 with simultaneous possibility for rolling up interest the first two years. Should TORM before December 2016 generate liquidity in excess of a pre-defined minimum liquidity threshold, the banks will be entitled to such excess liquidity. · It is a prerequisite that all time charter partners either align the time charter rates to the market level for the remaining contract periods or agree to cancel the time charters. · In exchange for the above the banks and the time charter partners will according to the conditional framework agreement in principle receive an ownership interest of 92.5% in TORM A/S, while the existing shareholders will retain an ownership interest of 7.5% after the implementation of the plan. The implementation of the plan is subject to major conditions, including the finalization of the definitive documentation and the approval of our Board of Directors, banks and time charter partners. As a result, the terms may change and there can be no assurance that the closing conditions will be satisfied or that we will reach an agreement on definitive terms. We are in breach of certain loan covenants contained in our loan agreements. If we are not successful in obtaining waivers and amendments with respect to covenants breached, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding mortgage debt and loans of $1.9 billion. Certain of our loan agreements contain minimum liquidity and solvency covenants. Specifically, we must comply with the following requirements: · Equity ratio must exceed 25%; 8 · equity must exceed DKK 1.25 billion (USD 217.6 million at December 31, 2011); and · available cash must exceed USD 60 million for a significant part of the loans. As of December 31, 2011, our equity ratio of 23.2% resulted in a breach of our financial covenants under certain existing loan agreements, and in January 2012 the cash covenant of USD 60 million was also breached. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have an unconditional right to defer payments on the loans for more than 12 months, and the mortgage debt and bank loans are in principle, payable on demand. Accordingly the mortgage debt and bank loans are classified as current liabilities in the balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. We are currently in discussions with our lenders to extend the repayment schedule of our current credit facilities. As part of these negotiations, we have agreed with our lenders to a covenant standstill and to temporarily defer the regularly scheduled payments due under such credit facilities. In December 2011, TORM and the majority of our banks entered installment and covenant standstill agreements valid until January 15, 2012. Subsequently the standstill agreements have been extended to February 15, 2012, March 1, 2012, March 15, 2012 and most recently to April 30, 2012. As of April 23, 2012, installments of USD 67 million have been deferred, and the Company is scheduled to make further loan repayments of USD 132 million during the remainder of 2012. These agreements do not waive the breaches but rather, provide for a period of time during which the banks will not take action against TORM in relation to the breaches. Breach of our loan covenants, without applicable waiver, entitles our lenders to accelerate our debt. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose on their liens. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on management's ability to successfully generate revenue to meet our obligations as they become due and have the continued support of our lenders. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion with an explanatory paragraph emphasizing that we have prepared our consolidated financial statements under the going concern assumption despite our covenant breaches. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. Servicing our debt limits funds available for other purposes and, if we cannot service our debt, we may lose some or all of our vessels, restricting our ability to conduct our business. We must dedicate a large part of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our debt level of approximately $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2011, including finance lease liabilities of $77.7 million, also makes us vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If we expand our fleet beyond vessels already financed, we will need to take on additional debt, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. Our inability to service debt could also lead to acceleration of our debt and the foreclosure of all or a portion of our fleet, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We have a history of losses and cannot be certain to achieve positive cash flow. We had net losses of $435 million, $135 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Even if we implement policy programs and the financing and restructuring plan, as discussed under Item 8. B. – Significant Changes, we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain positive cash flow or profitability from our operations. Our ability to achieve our objectives is subject to financial, regulatory, legal, technical and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain of our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants, which may limit our liquidity and corporate activities and prevent proper service of debt. Some loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions upon us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · change the management of our vessels without the lenders' consent, which cannot be unreasonably withhold; and · enter into mergers or corporate restructurings, or effect material divestments, if such would be materially adverse to the company. 9 · Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission to amend or revise these covenants when and if needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Sharp declines in the spot charter market may affect our earnings and cash flows from the vessels we operate in the spot market. We currently charter the majority of our vessels in the spot market through pools. During 2011, we generated 62% of our revenues from the spot market. Vessels trading in the spot market are exposed to increased risk of declining charter rates and freight rate volatility compared to vessels employed on time charters. Since mid-August 2008, the spot day rates in the product tanker and drybulk charter market have declined significantly and continue to remain at low levels, and product tanker and drybulk vessel values have also declined both as a result of a slowdown in the availability of global credit and the significant deterioration in charter rates. Charter rates and vessel values have been affected in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. Charter rates may remain at depressed levels for some time which will adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow and may decrease our earnings. Our loan agreements do not contain any vessel minimum value clauses and our rights and obligations under the loan agreements will not be affected by a decrease of the market values of our vessels. However, should the market values of our vessels decrease, it would limit the amount of new funds available under our available credit facilities and under future loan facilities. The fair values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand drybulk vessels are near historically low levels and prices for tanker vessels have dropped dramatically as well. The market value of our vessels fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, prevailing charter rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of constructing newbuildings. The market value of our fleet may decline as a result of a downswing in the historically cyclical shipping industry. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair value of our vessels declines, that may lead to an impairment charge being recognized in our consolidated financial statements, which may ultimately have an adverse effect on our ability to meet certain financial covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen below their carrying values, a loss on sale will be recognized in our consolidated financial statements. The recognition of an impairment on our vessels, or a loss on sale of our vessels, will result in a reduction in our profitability. In addition, our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels in pools, the spot market or on time charters. We employ the majority of our vessels on spot voyage charters or short-term time charters. Our operating results will therefore depend on the prevailing charter rates in a given time period. Charter rates are based in part on supply and demand and are extremely competitive. Significant fluctuations in charter rates will result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. We are impacted by any increase or decrease in market rates. If rates were to decrease significantly, we may not utilize our fleet fully and our earnings could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations, except when our vessels are under period charter, in which case the charterer pays fuel costs. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Additionally, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may further reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 10 We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. In the Tanker Division, a major portion of the company's freight revenue is concentrated on a small group of customers. In 2011, one customer in the Tanker Division accounted for 10% (2010: 11%, 2009: 13%) of the total freight revenue of the Company. The loss of any significant customer or a substantial decline in the amount of services requested by a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, the Company has not experienced material problems collecting charter hire but the global economic downturn of recent years has affected charterers more severely than the prior recessions. A disruption in the collection of freights and hires could negatively impact our earnings. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2011 TORM had contracted tanker FFAs that covered 135 days in 2012 at a weighted average daily rate of USD11,270 and 0 days in 2013 . In addition, as of December 31, 2011 TORM had contracted drybulk FFAs that covered 2,220 days in 2012 at a weighted average daily rate of USD11,748 and 0 days in 2013. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into FFAs, forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts and employ our vessels on Contracts of Affreightment (COAs), fixed rate time charters and voyage charters. Our FFAs, forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts, COAs and vessel charters subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if one of our vessels is involved in an accident. We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, including environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We carry insurance against loss of hire as well. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions, which although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. We own both vessels constructed for us directly by builders and previously owned, or secondhand, vessels purchased from other owners. While we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if we buy vessels older than one year. 11 In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2011, our fleet of owned vessels included 13 vessels more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine and hull technology. After vessels reach 15 years of age, the majority of charterers and oil companies may impose restrictions on vessels that make it more difficult to trade the vessels with optimal flexibility. In addition, these older vessels must meet certain hull thickness tests. Furthermore, cargo insurance rates increase for vessels over 15 years of age, making them less desirable to charterers. However, vessels of comparable tonnage to those in our fleet are generally estimated to have a useful lifetime of 25 years measured from the date the vessel is completed. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify such expenditures or enable us to operate them profitably for the remainder of their useful life, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Failure to successfully implement the strategy platform "Changing Trim" may have an adverse affect on TORM's operations. In 2010, TORM reviewed the business model and developed a new strategic platform named Changing Trim that sets the course for resilience and new profitability. The platform is focused on balancing TORM's business optimally and structuring the Company to cope with and adapt to the cyclical nature of the markets in which the Company operates. The strategy update performed in 2011 is a continuation of the Changing Trim framework with the four strategic cornerstones: Customers, Leadership, Resilience and Sophistication. The strategy update is made under the assumption that TORM will successfully complete the ongoing negotiations regarding a financial solution. Please refer to Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements for further information. TORM operates in an industry which is affected by numerous factors beyond TORM's control, including development in the global economy, freight rates, supply of, and demand for, vessel capacity, rules and regulation. As such, it cannot be guaranteed that the strategy platform "Changing Trim" will be successfully implemented, and such failure may have a material adverse effect on TORM's future performance, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Because we generate nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but incur some of our expenses in Danish Kroner and other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2011, we generated nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incurred approximately 91% of our expenses in U.S. dollars, approximately 7% in Danish Kroner and the remaining balance in Euro, Japanese Yen and other major currencies . A change in exchange rates could lead to fluctuations in our reported financial results, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Interest rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility in LIBOR, may significantly affect our loan payments, which could adversely affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. As of December 31, 2011, 94% of our loans bore interest at floating rates. Increases in prevailing rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders. LIBOR has decreased significantly during the year as a result of the financial crisis and the continued low interest environment. Because the interest rates borne by much of our outstanding indebtedness fluctuates with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. As of December 31, 2011, we had entered into interest swap agreements expiring between 2012 and 2016 for approximately 71% of the then outstanding principal amounts of our loans that may mitigate some of our exposure to the risk of rising interest rates. However, increases in interest rates will increase our payments under loans not covered by caps of the interest rates of our loans and swap agreements and may negatively affect our earnings and cash flow, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our operations, resulting in a loss of earnings. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel and commencing foreclosure proceedings. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our operations and require us to pay a substantial sum of money to have the arrest lifted, which could result in a loss of earnings and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and our results of operations. None of our vessels have been arrested by a maritime lien holder. 12 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Because we are a non-U.S. corporation, you may not have the same rights that a creditor of a U.S. corporation may have and it may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a U.S. judgment against our officers, our directors and us. We are a Danish company and our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this document reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets and the assets of our officers, directors and experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing any judgments obtained in U.S. courts to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgments. In addition, original actions or actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts with respect to civil liabilities solely under the federal securities laws of the United States are not enforceable in Denmark. See "Information about the Enforceability of Judgments and the Effect of Foreign Law." You may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive when the dividend was approved. Under Danish law, the board of directors proposes dividends and the shareholders vote whether to accept the proposal or to lower the dividend. We will pay any dividends in Danish Kroner to our depository agent for the ADSs, and our depository agent will convert the amounts into U.S. dollars at the relevant exchange rate and distribute the dividend to you. If the Danish Kroner depreciates against the U.S. dollar before our depository agent distributes the dividend, you may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive at the time the dividend was approved by shareholders. It is our current policy not to pay dividends, which may change in the future in the sole discretion of our board of directors. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the "Code", 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code or under the terms of a U.S. income tax treaty. We expect that our Danish subsidiaries will qualify for tax exemption under the income tax treaty between the United States and Denmark. However, our non-Danish subsidiaries may not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for the 2011 taxable year unless we are able to obtain certain certifications from our shareholders. As of the date of this filing, we have not been able to obtain these certifications. If we are unable to obtain these certifications, our non-Danish subsidiaries would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income derived during the 2011 taxable year. We can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to the exemption under the income tax treaty between the United States and Denmark and/or exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ''passive income'' or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets during such taxable year produce or are held for the production of those types of ''passive income.'' For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ''passive income.'' U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to certain reporting obligations and a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 13 Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce or are held for the production of "passive income". There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences and will incur certain information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse tax consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our ADSs, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our ADSs. Risks related to our American Depository Shares Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our ability to retain our listing is contingent upon compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements. On December 28, 2011 we received a letter from NASDAQ notifying us that for 30 consecutive business days the bid price of the our ADSs had closed below $1.00 per share, the minimum closing bid price required by the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ as set forth in the Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). This notification has no effect on the listing of the Company's common stock at this time, and the applicable grace period to regain compliance is 180 calendar days, expiring on June 26, 2012. We will regain compliance if, at any time during such grace period, the closing bid price of our common stock is at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. However, as of April 30, 2012, the closing bid price of our common stock had not reached $1.00 per share for any business day since our receipt of the bid price deficiency notice from NASDAQ. We intend to monitor the closing bid price of our common stock between now and June 26, 2012. However, if the closing bid price of our common stock does not reach $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days, our common stock listing may be moved to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which is a lower tier market, or our common stock may be delisted and traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board network. Moving our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and the delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could significantly negatively affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could further depress our stock price and materially adversely affect our ability to raise further capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. You may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. There may be no active public market for you to resell our ADSs, and to the extent there is, the price of our ADSs may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the industry; · changes in government regulation; 14 · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. Historically, the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for ADSs in the shipping industry may be equally volatile. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange is smaller and less liquid than the major securities exchanges or markets in the United States. The trading volume of our shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange has been volatile. It may be hard to predict future trading levels or volatility. Consequently, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. Holders of ADSs may experience delays in receiving information and materials not experienced by our common shareholders. The ADSs are securities that have been issued by a depository with whom we have deposited our common shares. The depository is responsible for distributing notices and voting materials to holders of the ADSs. If there is any delay in such distributions on the part of the depository, you may not receive such dividends or materials concurrently with holders of our common shares in Denmark, and may not receive such materials in time for you to instruct the depository to vote. 