Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report. We operate in an industry in which it is difficult to obtain precise industry and market information. Although we have obtained some industry data from outside sources that we believe to be reliable, in certain cases we have based statements contained in this annual report regarding our industry and our position in the industry on our estimates concerning, among other things, our customers and competitors. These estimates are based on our experience in the industry, conversations with our principal suppliers and customers and our own investigations of market conditions. The statistical data contained in this annual report regarding the network security software industry are our statements, which are based on data we obtained from industry sources. SOURCEFIRE®, SNORT®, the Sourcefire logo, the Snort and Pig logo, SECURITY FOR THE REAL WORLDtm, SOURCEFIRE DEFENSE CENTER®, SOURCEFIRE 3D®, RNA®, RUAtm, DAEMONLOGGERtm, ClamAV®, SOURCEFIRE SOLUTIONS NETWORKtm and certain other trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sourcefire, Inc. in the United States and other countries. This annual report also refers to the products or services of other companies or persons by the trademarks and trade names used and owned by those companies or persons. 3 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We are a leading provider of intelligent cybersecurity solutions for information technology, or IT, environments of commercial enterprises, including healthcare, financial services, manufacturing, energy, education, retail and telecommunications companies, and federal, state and local government organizations worldwide. Our solutions are comprised of multiple hardware and software product and service offerings, enabling a comprehensive, intelligent approach to network security. Our security solutions provide customers with an efficient and effective network security defense of assets and applications before, during and after an attack. Since our founding in 2001, we have garnered a reputation in the network security industry of being a staunch advocate for open source solutions. Over the years, this has developed into a key competitive distinction for Sourcefire as we now manage two of the security industry’s leading open source initiatives, Snort® and ClamAV®. First published in 1998 by Sourcefire founder and Chief Technology Officer, Martin Roesch, open source Snort has rapidly become the de facto standard for intrusion detection and prevention. With over 270,000 registered users, an increase of more than 20% in 2009, nearly 4 million downloads, and embraced by more than 100 network security providers, more organizations use Snort than any other intrusion prevention system, or IPS, engine in the world. Because of its wide availability, Snort is also the standard intrusion technology used in colleges and universities worldwide to teach network security. Sourcefire embraces open source security as a foundation, but extends that foundation by adding enterprise-class features, manageability, scalability, and performance. Many Sourcefire customers, for example, start out using open source Snort, but upgrade to Sourcefire’s commercial offerings to gain more efficient and effective network security capabilities. By incorporating open source security as a foundation in Sourcefire’s commercial product offerings, Sourcefire can: • seed the market with high-quality, low-cost network security solutions while providing a migration path for customers that require enterprise-class features, manageability, scalability and performance; • ensure product quality with the help of the open source community as well as Sourcefire’s internal developers to inspect the open code base that forms the foundation for Sourcefire commercial product offerings; • maximize protection, as Snort rules are provided by Sourcefire and a variety of third-party sources, allowing customers to create their own custom rules and signatures; and • embrace a “community” of open source evangelists willing to contribute time and effort in inspecting, evaluating, and ultimately using Sourcefire’s open source security solutions. Sourcefire sells its network security solutions to a diverse customer base that includes Global 2000 companies, global enterprises, U.S. and international government agencies and small and mid-size businesses. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we generated approximately 77%, 76% and 75% of our revenue from customers in the United States and 23%, 24% and 25% from customers outside of the United States, respectively. We have expanded our international and indirect distribution channels and, in the future, we expect to increase sales outside of the United States and to generate an increasing portion of product revenues through resellers, distributors and other partners. We increased our total revenue from $75.7 million in 2008 to $103.5 million in 2009, representing an annual growth rate of 37%. For the year ended December 31, 2009, product revenue and services revenue represented 60% and 40% of our total revenue, respectively. We manage our operations on a consolidated basis for purposes of assessing performance and making operating decisions. Accordingly, we do not have reportable segments of our business. Our Industry According to Gartner, Inc., an independent IT market research firm, the enterprise security infrastructure market is forecasted to generate $20.0 billion in 2010. Gartner also estimates that the core intrusion prevention 4 market was approximately $1.2 billion in 2009 and is projected to grow to $1.9 billion in 2012, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 17%. We expect that demand for security solutions will continue to rise as organizations seek to address various growing and evolving security challenges, including: Greater Sophistication, Severity and Frequency of Network Attacks. The growing use of the Internet as a business tool has required organizations to increase the number of access points to their networks, which has made vast amounts of critical information more vulnerable to attack. Theft of sensitive information for financial gain motivates network attackers, who derive profit through identity theft, credit card fraud, money laundering, extortion, intellectual property theft and other illegal means. These profit-motivated attackers, in contrast to the hobbyist hackers of the past, are employing much more sophisticated tools and techniques to generate profits for themselves and their well-organized and well-financed sponsors. Their attacks are increasingly difficult to detect and their tools often establish footholds on compromised network assets with little or no discernible effect, facilitating future access to the assets and the networks on which they reside. Increasing Risks from Unknown Vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities in computer software that are discovered by network attackers before they are discovered by security and software vendors represent a tremendous risk. These uncorrected flaws can leave networks largely defenseless and open to exploitation. According to the Computer Emergency Response Team Coordination Center, or CERT-CC, the trends in the rate of vulnerability disclosure are particularly alarming, with the National Vulnerability Database showing a Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures, or CVE, count of over 40,000 in early 2010. Diverse Demands on Security Administrators. The proliferation of targeted security solutions such as firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, URL filters, spam filters and anti-spyware solutions, while critical to enhancing network security, create significant administrative burdens on personnel who must manage numerous disparate technologies that are seldom integrated and often difficult to use. Most network security products require manual, labor-intensive incident response and investigation by security administrators, especially when “false positive” results are generated. Compounding these resource constraint issues, many organizations are increasingly challenged by the loss of key personnel as the demand for security experts has risen dramatically in traditional corporate settings, government agencies and a growing number of start-up security companies. Heightened Government and Industry Regulation. Rapidly growing government regulation mandates compliance with increased requirements for network security, escalating demand for security solutions that both meet compliance requirements and reduce the burden of compliance reporting and enforcement. These regulations include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, or PCI DSS, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, California’s SB1386 and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA, each of which protects personal data, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for risk management and the Federal Information Security Management Act, or FISMA, which is designed to protect national defense initiatives. Ensuring continuous compliance across multiple regulatory standards can be overwhelming and very costly for organizations. Increasing Visibility of Negligence Lawsuits. Faced with an ever-growing list of laws and regulations, organizations can no longer “plead ignorance” when defending corporate negligence lawsuits resulting from internal and external security breaches. Today’s enterprises must comply with a series of government and industry regulations defining best practices for network security. Achieving compliance with all manner of regulations is a complex and costly issue for nearly every organization. Our Products Sourcefire’s commercial hardware and software products are marketed and sold as components of a comprehensive Intrusion Detection and Prevention System: Sourcefire Defense Center® — The Defense Center unifies critical network security functions including event monitoring, correlation, and prioritization with network and user intelligence for forensic analysis, trends analysis, reporting and alerting. Defense Center is highly extensible, providing application programming interfaces, or APIs, to interoperate with a variety of third-party systems, such as firewalls, routers, log 5 management, Security Information Event Management, or SIEMs, trouble ticketing, patch management systems and other technologies. Using Defense Center, customers can control multiple Sourcefire 3D Sensors from a single management console while aggregating and analyzing security and compliance events from across the organization. Sourcefire Intrusion Detection and Prevention Sensors — With processing speeds ranging from 5 megabytes per second, or Mbps, to 10 gigabytes per second, or Gbps, Sourcefire Sensors are highly scalable, fault-tolerant appliances responsible for detecting, blocking and analyzing network traffic. The Sensors are available with a variety of copper and fiber interfaces to meet the connectivity needs of virtually any organization. • Sourcefire IPS® (Intrusion Prevention System) — Built on the foundation of Snort, Sourcefire IPS uses a rules-based language — a powerful combination of signature-, protocol-, and vulnerability-based inspection methods — to examine network packets for threats. Sourcefire IPS allows users to create, edit, and view detection rules, and full packet payloads are logged for every event so users can see exactly what threatening traffic has been detected. Sourcefire Sensors equipped with Sourcefire IPS software can be placed in passive intrusion detection, or IDS, mode to notify users of network traffic or in inline IPS mode to block threats. • Sourcefire RNAtm (Real-time Network Awareness) — At the heart of Sourcefire’s IPS is our network intelligence capability that provides persistent visibility into the composition, behavior, topology (the relationship of network components) and risk profile of the network. Network intelligence feeds the Defense Center’s automated decision-making and network policy enforcement. The ability to continuously discover characteristics and vulnerabilities of virtually any computing device communicating on a network enables Sourcefire IPS to more precisely identify and block threatening traffic and to more efficiently classify threatening and/or suspicious behavior. • Sourcefire RUAtm (Real-time User Awareness) — Sourcefire user awareness enables customers to link user identity to security and network violation events. It leverages Active Directory or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol systems by pairing usernames with host IP addresses involved in security and compliance events. This enables Sourcefire customers to resolve security and compliance events more quickly and easily. • Sourcefire NetFlow Analysis — Sourcefire NetFlow Analysis aggregates data from Cisco routers and switches, thus extending the reach of Sourcefire’s network behavior analysis, or NBA, solution to corners of the network where Sourcefire technology has not yet been employed. The combination of network awareness and NetFlow functionality provides customers with the ability to baseline “normal” network traffic across the enterprise, enabling security analysts to detect suspicious deviations, such as worm propagation, from established baselines. Further, the ability to analyze NetFlow also provides network managers with the network usage intelligence required to identify performance bottlenecks and/or areas of the network where too much bandwidth has been allocated. Sourcefire Intrusion Agent for Snort — Many Sourcefire commercial customers start out as open source Snort users. To initiate the migration from Snort to the more scalable and manageable Sourcefire commercial offering, Sourcefire offers Intrusion Agent software that can be placed on open source Snort Sensors. This enables customers to aggregate and analyze intrusion events from both open source Snort Sensors and commercial Sourcefire Intrusion Detection and Prevention Sensors. Sourcefire VRT (Vulnerability Research Team) Subscriptions — The power of Sourcefire’s intelligence to detect and block threats is the VRT. The VRT is a team of experienced network security professionals responsible for identifying network threats and writing, testing and publishing Snort rules to defend against both known and zero-day exploits. The VRT provide protection updates automatically, giving users the latest in detection and prevention capability. Open source Snort users can either subscribe on an annual basis to the VRT Certified Snort rules for real-time availability or access them at no charge on a 30-day delayed basis. The 6 Certified VRT rules are always available on a real-time basis to Sourcefire commercial IPS customers as part of their customer support agreement. Our Open Source Projects In addition to our products, we manage the following open source projects: Snort® — The traffic inspection engine used in our intrusion prevention system is the open source technology called Snort. Martin Roesch, our founder and Chief Technology Officer, created Snort in 1998 and assigned all of his rights in the software to Sourcefire upon our incorporation. Our employees, including Mr. Roesch, have authored all major components of Snort, and we maintain control over the Snort project, including the principal Snort community forum, Snort.org. Snort, which has become a de facto industry standard for intrusion prevention, has been downloaded nearly 4 million times. We believe that most Fortune 100 companies and 30 of the largest U.S. government agencies use Snort technology to monitor network traffic and that Snort is the most widely deployed intrusion prevention technology worldwide. The ubiquitous nature of the Snort user community represents a significant opportunity to sell our proprietary products to customers that require a complete enterprise solution. ClamAV® — Founded in 2001, and acquired by Sourcefire in 2007, ClamAV is one of the most commonly-used open source anti-malware products in the world. More than 1.4 million unique IP addresses download ClamAV updates daily from 121 mirror servers located in 43 countries. Renowned for its speed and accuracy, ClamAV has been adopted by network security solution and service providers worldwide and is currently integrated within leading enterprise solutions to identify deeply embedded threats such as viruses, trojans, spyware and other forms of malware. Like Snort, ClamAV’s cutting edge security technology is a product of our open source model. In addition to continual innovations to the ClamAV anti-virus engine, the ClamAV core team and ClamAV community deliver daily signature updates to its growing virus database of over 700,000 signatures. Our Services In addition to our commercial product offerings and open source projects, we also offer the following services to aid our customers with installing and supporting our solutions: Sourcefire Customer Support — Sourcefire’s customer support is designed to ensure customer satisfaction with Sourcefire products. Sourcefire’s comprehensive support services include online technical support, over-the-phone support, hardware repair/advanced replacement, and ongoing software updates to Sourcefire products. Sourcefire Professional Services — Sourcefire offers a variety of professional services solutions to provide customers with best practices for planning, installing, configuring and managing all components of the Sourcefire security system. The Sourcefire Professional Services Team provides customers with individualized, highly concentrated attention that gives organizations a “running start” and lasting knowledge transfer. Sourcefire Education & Certification — Sourcefire offers a variety of training programs to help security professionals using Sourcefire commercial or open source security solutions get the most out of their investment. Sourcefire training includes instructor-led and custom classes delivered at various locations around the world, onsite at customer premises, and online. In addition, Sourcefire provides a path for interested candidates to distinguish themselves through a certification program. Professionals can achieve certifications for proprietary Sourcefire products as well as open source Snort, including an expert-level exam for those security professionals who want to obtain certification on both proprietary and open source technologies. Through training and testing, certification provides customers and their employees with an understanding of individual skills and experience with Sourcefire products and Snort. 7 Our Competitive Strengths We are a leading provider of intelligence driven, open source network security solutions that enable our customers to protect their computer networks in an effective, efficient and highly automated manner. Our competitive strengths include: Comprehensive Network and User Intelligence. Our innovative network security solution incorporates real-time network awareness, which provides persistent visibility into the composition, behavior, topology and risk profile of the network and serves as a platform for automated decision-making and network security policy enforcement. This passive, or non-disruptive, network discovery enables network behavior analysis and real-time compositional cataloging of network assets, including their configuration, thereby significantly increasing the network intelligence available to IT and security administrators. This capability also provides the foundation for Sourcefire’s innovative Adaptive IPS strategy, which maximizes efficiency and effectiveness of the IPS by ensuring Snort rules are consistently enabled to protect actual network assets present on the protected network. With our real-time awareness capability, Sourcefire is the first network security provider to incorporate user identity as a part of a comprehensive IPS solution. By pairing usernames with host IP addresses, Sourcefire customers can evaluate and mitigate security and compliance events in less time than it takes with an IP address alone. Real-Time Approach to Network Security. Our approach to network security enables our customers to secure their networks by providing real-time defense against both known and unknown threats. Our solution is designed to support a continuum of network security functions that span pre-attack hardening of assets, high fidelity attack identification and disruption and real-time compromise detection and incident response. In addition, our ability to confidently classify and prioritize threats in network traffic and determine the composition, behavior and relationships of network devices, or endpoints, allows us to reliably automate what are otherwise manual, time-intensive processes. The Open Source Community. The open source Snort user community, which has over 270,000 registered users and has downloaded the software nearly 4 million times to date, has enabled us to establish a strong market footprint. We believe that most of the Fortune 100 companies and 30 of the largest U.S. government agencies use Snort technology to monitor network traffic and that Snort is the most widely deployed intrusion prevention technology worldwide. We believe that the combined user communities of both Snort and ClamAV provide us with significant benefits, including a broad threat awareness network, significant research and development leverage, and a large pool of security experts that are skilled in the use of our technologies. These communities enable us to more cost-effectively test new algorithms and concepts on a vast number of diverse networks and significantly expedite the process of product innovation. We believe that the broad acceptance of Snort and ClamAV makes us one of the most trusted sources of network security solutions. Leading-Edge Performance. Our solutions are built to maintain high performance across the network while also providing high levels of network security. Specifically, our high-end solutions have the ability to process up to 10 Gbps of traffic with latency in the microseconds. Our IPS technology incorporates advanced traffic processing functionality, including packet acquisition, protocol normalization and target-based traffic inspection, which yields increased inspection precision and efficiency and enables more granular inspection of network traffic. The Defense Center supports event loads as high as 1,300 events per second, which we believe meets or exceeds the requirements of the most demanding enterprise customers. Security Industry Intelligence. The Sourcefire VRT is a group of leading edge network security experts who proactively discover, assess and respond to the latest trends in hacking activities, intrusion attempts and vulnerabilities. Some of the most renowned security professionals in the industry, including the authors of several standard security reference books, are members of the Sourcefire VRT. This team is also supported by the vast resources of the open source Snort and ClamAV communities, making it the largest group dedicated to advances in the network security industry. The VRT’s research and insights into network security are published on http://vrt-sourcefire.blogspot.com/. 8 Broad Industry Recognition. We have received numerous industry awards and certifications, including recognition as a “leader” in the network IPS market, supporting our position as one of a select few companies that best combines “completeness of vision” with “ability to execute.” We hold the Network Intrusion Prevention certification from ICSA Labs, and our real-time network awareness product has received the NSS Gold award, which is awarded by The NSS Group to only those products that are distinguished in terms of advanced or unique features, and which offer outstanding value. In addition, our technology has achieved Common Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level 2, or EAL2, which is an international evaluation standard for information technology security products sanctioned by, among others, the International Standards Organization, the National Security Agency and the National Institute for Standards and Technology. Our Growth Strategy Our goal is to become the preeminent provider of open source and commercial network security solutions on a global basis by: • Accelerating our leadership in network security solutions; Continuing to develop innovative network security technology; Evaluating selective adjacent market technologies for partnering or potential acquisition. We intend to maintain and enhance our technological leadership position in network security. We will continue to invest significantly in internal development and product enhancements and to recruit, train, develop and retain experienced network security professionals to broaden our proprietary knowledge base. We believe that our platform is capable of expanding into new markets such as security for virtualized environments, data leakage prevention, or DLP, log and security management, network security monitoring, or NSM, next generation firewalls, network behavior analysis and compliance management and, over time, we expect to penetrate these markets with innovative products and technologies. By leveraging the intelligence from the open source community we believe that we have more visibility into threats worldwide, and that we will be able to continue our leadership position in providing users access to the latest information on current threats and ways to protect their organizations against them. • Evolving our go-to-market strategy into a more leveraged model by expanding relationships with resellers, distributors, MSSPs and government integrators. We intend to expand our indirect sales channel, both internationally and domestically. We also intend to utilize our relationships with managed security service providers, or MSSPs, such as Symantec, BT Counterpane, SecureWorks and VeriSign, to derive incremental revenue. In 2009, we generated approximately 29% of our revenue from governmental organizations and, in the future, we believe we will generate an increasing amount of revenue from government integrators who resell our products to government agencies. Awards and Certifications We have received numerous industry awards and certifications since January 1, 2009, including: • Gartner Magic Quadrant. Sourcefire announced it was recognized by Gartner, Inc. as being a ‘Leader’ in the April 2009 Magic Quadrant for Network Intrusion Prevention System Appliances report. • SC Award for ‘Best Intrusion Detection/Prevention Solution’ by SC Magazine. Snort was honored with the ’Reader Trust Award’ for best-in-class intrusion detection and prevention. • Top ‘Recommend’ rating in Network Intrusion Prevention System Comparative Test Report, NSS Labs Inc. December 2009 • ‘2009 Best of Tests Winner’ by Network World. The sole winner in the security category, the Sourcefire 3D System was recognized for its ability to make network protection easier and more effective. • ‘Open Source Hall of Fame’ by InfoWorld. Snort was recognized as one of the greatest open source software projects of all time and for propelling the open source movement into the spotlight. • ‘Network Intrusion Prevention System Certification’ by ICSA Labs. Sourcefire’s full IPS product line was certified by ICSA Labs, reaffirming Sourcefire’s commitment to providing best-in-class protection against today’s most menacing threats. 9 Customers We provide products and services to a variety of end users worldwide. Our customers represent a broad spectrum of organizations within diverse sectors, including some of the world’s largest financial institutions, defense contractors, health care providers, IT companies, telecommunication companies and retailers, as well as U.S. and other national, state and local government agencies. We view our primary customers as enterprises generally having annual revenue exceeding $500 million, though we are increasingly pursuing the sale of products and services to the mid-tier market, targeting organizations with annual revenue ranging from $250-$500 million. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, a distributor of our products to the U.S. government, immixTechnology, accounted for 20% and 11%, respectively, of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2007 we had no significant customers that accounted for greater than 10% of revenue recognized during such periods. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our appliances, software and services directly to our customers through our direct sales organization and indirectly through our resellers, distributors, MSSPs, government integrators and other partners. Sales. Our sales organization is organized into two geographic regions: the Americas and International. We maintain sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our sales personnel are responsible for market development, including managing our relationships with resellers and distributors, assisting them in winning and supporting key customer accounts and acting as liaisons between the end customers and our marketing and product development organizations. We are also investing in the capacity of our international sales and channel personnel to provide expanded levels of support throughout Europe, Latin America, and the Asia/Pacific region. Each sales organization is supported by experienced security engineers who are responsible for providing pre-sales technical support and technical training for the sales team and for our resellers, distributors and other partners. All of our sales personnel are responsible for lead follow-up and account management. Our sales personnel have quota requirements and are compensated with a combination of base salary and earned commissions. Our indirect sales channel, comprised primarily of resellers and distributors, is supported by our sales force, including dedicated channel managers, with substantial experience in selling network security products to, and through, resellers and distributors. We maintain a global network of value-added resellers and distributors. Our arrangements with our resellers and distributors are non-exclusive, generally cover all of our products and services, and provide for appropriate discounts based on a variety of factors, including their transaction volume. We also provide our resellers and distributors with marketing assistance, technical training and support. Strategic Relationships. We have established commercial relationships with several MSSPs, including BT Counterpane, SecureWorks, Symantec, VeriSign and Verizon Business, to provide alternative distribution channels for our products. Marketing. Our marketing activities consist primarily of product marketing, product management and sales support programs. Marketing also includes advertising, our corporate website, trade shows, direct marketing and public relations. Our marketing program is designed to build the Sourcefire, Snort and ClamAV brands, increase customer awareness, generate leads and communicate our product advantages. We also use our marketing program to support the sale of our products through new channels and to new markets. Research and Development Our research and development efforts are focused both on improving and enhancing our existing network security products and on developing new products, features and functionality. We communicate with our customers and the open source community when considering product improvements and enhancements, and we regularly release new versions of our products incorporating these improvements and enhancements. Research & Development Team. Our research and development team is comprised of highly skilled and experienced security and network experts. The team encompasses the full lifecycle of product ideation, design, development, integration, quality assurance testing, deployment, maintenance and support. Our development 10 experts focus on the Sourcefire security products, as well as manage the administration and testing of the open source Snort and Clam AV initiatives. The development is performed in the domestic United States. Vulnerability Research Team. Our VRT is comprised of leading network security experts working to proactively discover, assess and respond to the latest trends in network threats and security vulnerabilities. By gathering and analyzing this information, our VRT creates and updates Snort rules, ClamAV signatures, and security tools that are designed to identify, characterize and defeat attacks. This team operates from our corporate headquarters in Columbia, Maryland. Our VRT participates in extensive collaboration with hundreds of network security professionals in the open source Snort community to learn of new vulnerabilities and exploits. The VRT also coordinates and shares information with other security authorities such as The SANS Institute, CERT-CC, iDefense (Verisign), SecurityFocus (Bugtraq; Symantec) and Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (Mitre). Because of the knowledge and experience of our VRT personnel, as well as its extensive coordination with the open source community, we believe that we have access to one of the largest and most sophisticated groups of IT security experts researching vulnerability and threats on a real-time basis. Our research and development expense was $16.3 million, $12.6 million and $11.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Manufacturing and Suppliers We typically hold limited inventory, relying primarily on a just-in-time manufacturing philosophy. We utilize two principal contract equipment manufacturers to source components, assemble, integrate and test our appliances and to ship those appliances to our customers. In addition, we utilize a third contract manufacturer to design and integrate some of our software and hardware components for use in select high-performance models of our appliances. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers are non-exclusive and subject to expiration at the end of terms ranging from one to three years. We would be faced with the burden, cost and delay of having to qualify and contract with a new supplier if any of these agreements expire or terminate for any reason. Intellectual Property To protect our intellectual property, both domestically and abroad, we rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. We hold seven issued patents and have 34 patent applications pending for examination in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. The claims for which we have sought patent protection relate to methods and systems we have developed for intrusion detection and prevention used in our solutions. In addition, we utilize contractual provisions, such as non-disclosure and non-compete agreements with our employees and consultants, and confidentiality procedures to strengthen our protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. While we cannot determine the extent to which piracy of our software products occurs, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as U.S. government agencies and private parties. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. For a discussion of seasonality affecting our business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Seasonality.” 11 Competition The market for network security monitoring, detection, prevention and response solutions is intensely competitive and we expect strong competition to continue in the future. Our chief competitors generally fall within the following categories: • large companies, including Cisco Systems, Inc., IBM Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., 3Com Corporation, Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd. and McAfee, Inc., that sell competitive products and offerings, as well as other large software companies that have the technical capability and resources to develop competitive products; • software or hardware network infrastructure companies, including Cisco Systems, Inc., 3Com Corporation and Juniper Networks, Inc., that could integrate features that are similar to our products into their own products; • smaller software companies offering applications for network and Internet security monitoring, detection, prevention or response; and • small and large companies offering point solutions that compete with components of our product offerings. Large companies may have advantages over us because of their longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They also have greater resources to devote to the promotion and sale of their products. In addition, these companies have reduced and could continue to reduce, the price of their security monitoring, detection, prevention and response products and managed security services, which intensifies pricing pressures within our market. Several companies currently sell security software products, such as encryption, firewall, operating system security and virus detection software, that our customers and potential customers have broadly adopted. Some of these companies sell products that perform the same functions as some of our products. In addition, the vendors of operating system software or networking hardware may enhance their products to include functions similar to those that our products currently provide. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for information security solutions include security effectiveness, manageability, technical features, performance, ease of use, price, scope of product offerings, professional services capabilities, distribution relationships and customer service and support. We believe that our solutions generally compete favorably with respect to such factors. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 307 employees, of whom 85 were engaged in product research and development and 124 were engaged in sales and marketing. Our current employees are not represented by a labor union and are not the subject of a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in January 2001. We completed our initial public offering in March 2007. Our executive offices are located at 9770 Patuxent Woods Drive, Columbia, Maryland 21046, and our main telephone number is (410) 290-1616. Available Information Our internet address is www.sourcefire.com. We provide free of charge on the Investor Relations page of our corporate web site access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Information appearing on our website is not incorporated by reference in and is not a part of this annual report. 12 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business, Operations and Industry Economic, market and political conditions, including the global recession, may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business depends significantly on a range of factors that are beyond our control. These include: • general economic and business conditions; • the overall demand for network security products and services; and • constraints on budgets and changes in spending priorities of corporations and government agencies. The global financial recession has resulted in the significant weakening of the U.S. and global economies, the lack of availability of credit, the reduction in business confidence and activity, and other factors that may affect one or more of the industries to which we sell our products and services. Our customers include, but are not limited to, financial institutions, defense contractors, health care providers, information technology companies, telecommunications companies and retailers. These customers may suffer from reduced operating budgets, which could cause them to defer or forego purchases of our products or services. In addition, negative effects on the financial condition of our resellers and distributors could affect their ability or willingness to market our product and service offerings; negative effects on the financial condition of our product manufacturers could affect their ability to manufacture our products; and declines in economic and market conditions could impair our short-term investment portfolio. Any of these developments could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We face intense competition in our market, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. The market for network security monitoring, detection, prevention and response solutions is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. We may not compete successfully against our current or potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial resources or brand name recognition. Our chief competitors include: large software companies; software or hardware network infrastructure companies; smaller software companies offering applications for network and Internet security monitoring, detection, prevention or response; and small and large companies offering point solutions that compete with components of our product offerings. For example, Cisco Systems, Inc., IBM Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., 3Com Corporation, Check Point Software Technologies, Ltd. and McAfee, Inc., have intrusion detection or prevention technologies that compete with our product offerings. Large companies may have advantages over us because of their longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They also have greater resources to devote to the promotion and sale of their products than we have. In addition, in some cases our competitors have aggressively reduced, and could continue to reduce, the price of their security monitoring, detection, prevention and response products, managed security services, and maintenance and support services which intensifies pricing pressures within our market. Several companies currently sell software products (such as encryption, firewall, operating system security and virus detection software) that our customers and potential customers have broadly adopted. Some of these companies sell products that perform functions comparable to some of our products. In addition, the vendors of operating system software or networking hardware may enhance their products to include functions similar to those 13 that our products currently provide. The widespread inclusion of features comparable to our software in operating system software or networking hardware could render our products less competitive or obsolete, particularly if such features are of a high quality. Even if security functions integrated into operating system software or networking hardware are more limited than those of our products, a significant number of customers may accept more limited functionality to avoid purchasing additional products such as ours. One of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone can offer new software products for free under an open source licensing model in order to gain rapid and widespread market acceptance. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional technology companies. It is possible for new competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source security solutions, potentially reducing the demand for our solutions. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressure and/or the availability of open source software may result in price reductions, reduced revenue, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. New competitors could emerge and could impair our sales. New sources of competition for sales of our products could emerge. These include: • emerging companies as well as larger companies who have not previously entered the market for network security products; • established companies that develop their own network intrusion detection and prevention products, or acquire or establish product integration, distribution or other cooperative relationships with our current competitors; and • new competitors or alliances among competitors that emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share due to factors such as greater brand name recognition, a larger installed customer base and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and experience. We achieved profitability on an annual basis for the first time in 2009, which we may not be able to maintain. We incurred operating losses each year from our inception in 2001 through 2008. We achieved profitability on an annual basis for the first time in 2009. Maintaining profitability will depend in large part on our ability to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods. Although our revenue has generally been increasing, there can be no assurances that we will maintain or increase our level of profitability. Our operating expenses may continue to increase as we seek to expand our customer base, increase our sales and marketing efforts and continue to invest in research and development of our technologies and products. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and we may not be able to increase our revenue to offset our operating expenses. If we cannot increase our revenue at a greater rate than our expenses, we will not remain profitable. Our quarterly operating results are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable, in part because of the purchasing and budget practices of our customers, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Our operating results have historically varied significantly from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, most of which are outside of our control, including: • the budgeting cycles, internal approval requirements and funding available to our existing and prospective customers for the purchase of network security products; • the timing, size and contract terms of orders received, which have historically been highest in the fourth quarter, but may fluctuate seasonally in different ways; • the level of perceived threats to network security, which may fluctuate from period to period; 14 • the level of demand for products sold by resellers, distributors, MSSPs, government integrators and other partners; • the market acceptance of open source software solutions; • the announcement or introduction of new product offerings by us or our competitors, and the levels of anticipation and market acceptance of those products; • price competition; • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets; • the product mix of our sales; and • the timing of revenue recognition for our sales. In particular, the network security technology procurement practices of many of our customers have had a measurable influence on the historical variability of our operating performance. Our prospective customers usually exercise great care and invest substantial time in their network security technology purchasing decisions. As a result, our sales cycles are long, generally between six and twelve months or sometimes longer, which further impacts the variability of our results. Additionally, many of our customers have historically finalized purchase decisions in the last weeks or days of a quarter. A delay in even one large order beyond the end of a particular quarter can substantially diminish our anticipated revenue for that quarter. In addition, many of our expenses must be incurred before we generate revenue. As a result, the negative impact on our operating results would increase if our revenue fails to meet expectations in any period. The cumulative effect of these factors may result in larger fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly operating results than in the operating results of many other software and technology companies. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet the revenue or operating results expectations of securities industry analysts or investors for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially, and we could face costly securities class action suits as a result. Therefore, you should not rely on our operating results in any quarter as being indicative of our operating results for any future period, nor should you rely on other expectations, predictions or projections of our future revenue or other aspects of our results of operations. Federal and state governmental agencies have contributed to our revenue growth and have become important customers for us. If we cannot attract sufficient government agency customers, our revenue and competitive position will suffer. Federal and state governments have become important customers for the network security market and for us. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenue from these customers. Contracts with the U.S. federal and state government agencies collectively accounted for 29%, 21% and 11% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our reliance on government customers subjects us to a number of risks, including: • Procurement. Contracting with public sector customers is highly competitive and can be expensive and time-consuming, often requiring that we incur significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract; • Budgetary Constraints and Cycles. Demand and payment for our products and services are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability. Reductions or delays in funding, including delays caused by continuing resolutions or other temporary funding arrangements, could adversely impact public sector demand for our products; • Modification or Cancellation of Contracts. Public sector customers often have contractual or other legal rights to terminate current contracts for convenience or due to a default. If a contract is cancelled for convenience, which can occur if the customer’s product needs change, we may only be able to collect for products and services delivered prior to termination. If a contract is cancelled because of our default, we may only be able to collect for products and alternative products and services delivered to the customer; 15 • Governmental Audits. National governments and state and local agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors’ administrative processes. They may audit our performance and pricing and review our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. If they find that we improperly allocated costs, they may require us to refund those costs or may refuse to pay us for outstanding balances related to the improper allocation. An unfavorable audit could result in a reduction of revenue, and may result in civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities; and • Replacing Existing Products. Many government agencies already have installed network security products of our competitors. It can be very difficult to convince government agencies or other prospective customers to replace their existing network security solutions with our products, even if we can demonstrate the superiority of our products. If we do not continue to establish and effectively manage our indirect distribution channels, or if our resellers, distributors and other partners fail to perform as expected, our revenue could suffer. Our ability to sell our network security software products in new markets and to increase our share of existing markets will be impaired if we fail to manage or expand our indirect distribution channels. Our sales strategy involves the establishment of multiple distribution channels domestically and internationally through strategic resellers, distributors, MSSPs, government integrators and other partners. We have agreements with third parties for the distribution of our products and we cannot predict the extent to which these companies will be successful in marketing or selling our products. There is a risk that our pace of entering into such agreements may slow. In addition, our agreements with these companies could be terminated on short notice, and the agreements do not prevent these companies from selling the network security software of other companies, including our competitors. Any distributor of our products could give higher priority to other companies’ products or to their own products than they give to ours, which could cause our revenue to decline. There is also a risk that some or all of our resellers, distributors and other partners may be acquired, change their business models or go out of business, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks of operating internationally that could impair our ability to grow our revenue abroad. We market and sell our software in the United States and internationally, and we plan to increase our international sales presence. Therefore, we are subject to risks associated with having worldwide operations. Sales to customers located outside of the United States accounted for 23%, 24% and 25% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional worldwide markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. We are also subject to a number of risks customary for international operations, including: • economic or political instability in foreign markets; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • import and export controls; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • costs of compliance with foreign laws and laws applicable to companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions; • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural differences and geographic dispersion; • compliance with tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 16 To date, a substantial portion of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars, although the majority of our expenses that we incur in our international operations are denominated in local currencies. To date, we have not used risk management techniques or “hedged” the risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result, our results of operations are subject to losses from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The market for network security products is rapidly evolving, and the complex technology incorporated in our products makes them difficult to develop. If we do not accurately predict, prepare for and respond promptly to technological and market developments and changing customer needs, our competitive position and prospects could be harmed. The market for network security products is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. Moreover, many customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to add numerous network access points and adapt increasingly complex enterprise networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. In addition, computer hackers and others who try to attack networks employ increasingly sophisticated techniques to gain access to and attack systems and networks. Customers look to our products to continue to protect their networks against these threats in this increasingly complex environment without sacrificing network efficiency or causing significant network downtime. The software in our products is especially complex because it needs to effectively identify and respond to new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, without impeding the high network performance demanded by our customers. Although the market expects speedy introduction of software to respond to new threats, the development of these products is difficult and the timetable for commercial release of new products is uncertain. Therefore, in the future we may experience delays in the introduction of new products or new versions, modifications or enhancements of existing products. If we do not quickly respond to the rapidly changing and rigorous needs of our customers by developing and introducing on a timely basis new and effective products, upgrades and services that can respond adequately to new security threats, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. If our new products and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our results of operations and competitive position could suffer. We spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new products and enhance versions of our open source and proprietary commercial products. We incorporate additional features, improve functionality or add other enhancements in order to meet our customers’ rapidly evolving demands for network security in our highly competitive industry. When we develop a new product or an advanced version of an existing product, we typically expend significant money and effort upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. Therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing the products to market. Our new products or enhancements could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: • delays in introducing new, enhanced or modified products; • defects, errors or failures in any of our products; • inability to operate effectively with the networks of our prospective customers; • inability to protect against new types of attacks or techniques used by hackers; • negative publicity about the performance or effectiveness of our network security products; • reluctance of customers to purchase products based on open source software; and • disruptions or delays in the availability and delivery of our products, including products from our contract manufacturers. If our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position could be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be 17 particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product. If existing customers do not make subsequent purchases from us or renew their support arrangements with us, or if our relationships with our largest customers are impaired, our revenue could decline. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, existing customers that purchased additional products and services from us, whether for new locations or additional technology to protect existing networks and locations, generated a majority of our total revenue. Part of our growth strategy is to sell additional products to our existing customers. We may not be effective in executing this or any other aspect of our growth strategy. Our revenue could decline if our current customers do not continue to purchase additional products from us. In addition, as we deploy new versions of our existing products or introduce new products, our current customers may not require the functionality of these products and may not purchase them. We also depend on our installed customer base for future service revenue from annual maintenance fees. Our maintenance and support agreements typically have durations of one year. If customers choose not to continue their maintenance service or seek to renegotiate the terms of maintenance and support agreements prior to renewing such agreements, our revenue may decline. Defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and business and divert our resources. Because our products are complex, they may contain defects, errors or vulnerabilities that are not detected until after our commercial release and installation by our customers. We may not be able to correct any errors or defects or address vulnerabilities promptly, or at all. Any defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our products could result in: • expenditure of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct and eliminate defects, to address and eliminate vulnerabilities or to create alternative solutions; • loss of existing or potential customers; • delayed or lost revenue; • failure to timely attain or maintain market acceptance; • increased service, warranty, product replacement and product liability insurance costs; and • negative publicity, which could harm our reputation. In addition, because our products and services provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Anyone who circumvents our customers’ security measures using our products could misappropriate the confidential information or other valuable property of, or interrupt the operations of our customers. If that happens, affected customers or others could sue us. In addition, we may face liability for breaches of our product warranties or product failures. Provisions in our contracts relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations may be deemed by a court to be unenforceable. Some courts, for example, have found contractual limitations of liability in standard computer and software contracts to be unenforceable in some circumstances. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention from the operation of our business. Our business liability insurance coverage may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms or at all. Our networks, products and services may be targeted by hackers. Like other companies, our websites, networks, information systems, products and services may be targets for sabotage, disruption or misappropriation by hackers. As a leading network security solutions company, we are a high profile target and our networks, products and services may be targeted by hackers. Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent disruption and misappropriation, and to respond to such situations, we expect these efforts by hackers to continue. If these efforts are successful, our operations, reputation and sales could be adversely affected. 18 We may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies as part of our long-term growth strategy, and such acquisitions may not ultimately be successful or may not result in expected strategic benefits. We may seek to buy or make investments in complementary or competitive businesses, products or technologies as part of our long-term growth strategy. We may not be successful in making these acquisitions. We may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other companies, including larger companies with greater financial resources. We may incur substantial expenses in identifying and negotiating acquisition opportunities, whether or not completed. Acquisitions may not result in the expected strategic benefits, and completed acquisitions, if any, could negatively affect our operating results and financial position because of the following and other factors: • we may not effectively integrate an acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations; • completing a potential acquisition and integrating an acquired business into our existing business could significantly divert management’s time and resources from the operation of our business; • a completed acquisition may not be accretive to earnings; • acquisitions may result in substantial accounting charges for restructuring and other expenses, write-offs of in-process research and development, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense; • acquired companies, particularly privately held and non-U.S. companies, may have internal controls, policies and procedures that do not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and public company accounting standards; • we may use a significant portion of our cash resources to fund acquisitions; and • we may issue stock to fund acquisitions, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. In the future, we may not be able to secure financing necessary to make acquisitions or to operate and grow our business as planned. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to make acquisitions or to expand our sales and marketing and research and development efforts. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities or to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we issue debt, the debt holders could have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders would experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. If other parties claim commercial ownership rights to Snort or ClamAV, our reputation, customer relations and results of operations could be harmed. While we created a majority of the current Snort code base and the current ClamAV code base, a portion of the current code for both Snort and ClamAV was created by the combined efforts of Sourcefire and the open source software community, and a portion was created solely by the open source community. We believe that the portions of the Snort code base and the ClamAV code base created by anyone other than us are required to be licensed by us pursuant to the GNU General Public License, or GPL, which is how we currently license Snort and ClamAV. There is a risk, however, that a third party could claim some ownership rights in Snort or ClamAV, attempt to prevent us from commercially licensing Snort or ClamAV in the future (rather than pursuant to the GPL as currently licensed) or claim a right to licensing royalties. Any such claim, regardless of its merit or outcome, could be costly to defend, harm our reputation and customer relations or result in our having to pay substantial compensation to the party claiming ownership. 19 We rely on software licensed from other parties, the loss of which could increase our costs and delay delivery of our products. We utilize various types of software licensed from unaffiliated third parties. For example, we license MySQL database software that we use in our products. Our agreement with Oracle Corporation permits us to distribute MySQL software on our products to our customers worldwide until June 30, 2014. Our agreement with Oracle gives us the unlimited right to distribute MySQL software in exchange for a one-time lump-sum payment. We believe that the MySQL agreement is material to our business because we have spent a significant amount of development resources to allow the MySQL software to function in our products. If we were forced to find replacement database software or replacements for any of the other software we license from others for our products, our business would be disrupted and we could be required to expend significant resources, and there would be no guarantee that we would be able to procure the replacement on the same or similar commercial terms and conditions, or at all. Additionally, we would be required to either redesign our products to function with software available from other parties or develop these components ourselves, which could result in increased costs and could result in delays in our product shipments and the release of new product offerings. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future products. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these software licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the software. Our inability to hire or retain key personnel, or to effectively manage headcount increases, could impair our intended growth. Our business is dependent on our ability to hire, retain, motivate and manage highly qualified personnel, including senior management and sales and technical professionals. In particular, as part of our growth strategy, we intend to expand the size of our sales force domestically and internationally and to hire additional customer support and professional services personnel. However, competition for qualified services personnel is intense, and if we are unable to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified sales and services personnel that our business needs, our reputation, customer satisfaction and potential revenue growth could be seriously harmed. To the extent that we hire personnel from competitors, we may also be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information. Our intended future growth may also place a significant strain on our management, financial, personnel and other resources. In addition, our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our executive officers and senior personnel. Although we have adopted retention plans applicable to certain of these officers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain their services. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect our business and could divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements. Our business is subject to corporate governance, public disclosure, accounting and tax requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to the rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities, such as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and the Nasdaq stock exchange, that are charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. Our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We completed our evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2009, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our business and reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses. 20 Because new and modified laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Any material disruption or problem with the operation of our information systems may adversely impact our business, operating processes and internal controls. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on the successful operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to process financial information, manage inventory and administer our sales transactions. In recent years, we have experienced a considerable growth in transaction volume and headcount, and we are increasingly relying upon international resources in our operations. Our information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the continued growth of our operations and the efficient management of our business. In an effort to improve the efficiency of our operations, achieve greater automation and support the growth of our business, we have implemented an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system and a customer resource management, or CRM, system. These information systems may not work as we currently intend. Any material disruption or similar problems with the operation of our information systems could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if our information system resources are inadequate, we may be required to undertake costly modifications and the growth of our business could be harmed. Potential uncertainty resulting from unsolicited acquisition proposals and related matters may adversely affect our business. In the past we have received, and in the future we may receive, unsolicited proposals to acquire our company or our assets. The review and consideration of acquisition proposals and related matters could require the expenditure of significant management time and personnel resources. Such proposals may also create uncertainty for our employees, customers and business partners. Any such uncertainty could make it more difficult for us to retain key employees and hire new talent, and could cause our customers and business partners to not enter into new arrangements with us or to terminate existing arrangements. Additionally, we and members of our board of directors could be subject to future lawsuits related to unsolicited proposals to acquire us. Any such future lawsuits could become time consuming and expensive. These matters, alone or in combination, may harm our business. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property and Litigation Our products contain open source software, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell our products. Like many other software companies, we use and distribute “open source” software in order to expedite development of new products and features. Open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under “open source” licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, or GPL, the GNU Lesser Public License, or LGPL, the BSD License and the Apache License. This open source software includes, without limitation, Snort, ClamAV, Linux, Apache, OpenSSL, Etheral, IPTables, Tcpdump and Tripwire. These license terms may be ambiguous, in many instances have not been interpreted by the courts and could be interpreted in a manner that results in unanticipated obligations regarding our products. Depending upon how the open source software is deployed by our developers and the underlying licenses are interpreted by the courts, we could be required to offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, make available the source code for modifications or derivative works, or secure an additional license to the underlying patent rights. Any of these obligations could have an adverse impact on our intellectual property rights and revenue from products incorporating the open source software. Our use of open source code could also result in us developing and selling products that infringe third-party intellectual property rights. It may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the code incorporates proprietary software or otherwise infringes another party’s intellectual property rights (including patent rights). We have processes and controls in place that are designed to address these risks and 21 concerns, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source. However, we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. We also have processes and controls in place to review the use of open source in the products developed by companies that we may acquire. Even if we conduct due diligence prior to completing an acquisition, the acquired products or technologies may nonetheless include open source software that was not identified during the initial due diligence. Our ability to commercialize products or technologies of any companies we may acquire that incorporate open source software or to otherwise fully realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition may be restricted in the same manner as if the open source software had been incorporated into our own software. Our intellectual property rights may be difficult to enforce, which could enable others to compete with us or to copy or use aspects of our products without compensating us. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights and technology may not deter its misuse, theft or misappropriation. Competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or that inappropriately incorporate our proprietary technology into their products. Our products incorporate open source Snort software, which is readily available to the public. To the extent that our proprietary software is included by others in what are purported to be open source products, it may be difficult and expensive to enforce our intellectual property rights in such software. Competitors also may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology. In addition, from time to time, we become aware that users of our security products may not have paid adequate license, technical support, or subscription fees to us. However, some jurisdictions may not provide an adequate legal infrastructure for effective protection or enforcement of our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, changing legal interpretations of liability for unauthorized use of our software or lessened sensitivity by corporate, government or institutional users to refraining from intellectual property piracy or other infringements of intellectual property could also harm our business. In limited instances we have agreed to place, and in the future may agree to place, source code for our proprietary software in escrow. In most cases, the escrowed source code may be made available to certain of our customers and partners in the event that we were to file for bankruptcy or materially fail to support our products in the future. Release of our source code upon any such event would increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. We have rarely agreed to source code escrow arrangements in the past and usually only in connection with prospective customers considering a significant purchase of our products and services. If we acquire technology to include in our products from third parties, our exposure to infringement actions may increase because we must rely upon these third parties to verify the origin and ownership of such technology. Similarly, we face exposure to infringement actions if we hire software engineers who were previously employed by competitors and those employees inadvertently or deliberately incorporate proprietary technology of our competitors into our products despite efforts by our competitors and us to prevent such infringement. Efforts to assert intellectual property ownership rights in our products could impact our standing in the open source community, which could limit our product innovation capabilities. If we were to undertake actions to protect and maintain ownership and control over our intellectual property rights, our standing in the open source community could be diminished. This could in turn limit our ability to rely on this community as a resource to identify and defend against new viruses, threats and techniques to attack secure networks, explore new ideas and concepts and further our research and development efforts. 22 Claims that our products infringe the proprietary rights of others could harm our business and cause us to incur significant costs. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights in our technologies, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the additional expense, time and effort required to create competitive technologies. As a result, litigation may be necessary to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Similarly, the security technology industry has increasingly been subject to patent and other intellectual property rights litigation, particularly from special purpose entities that seek to monetize their intellectual property rights by asserting claims against others. We expect this trend to continue and accelerate and expect that we may from time to time be required to defend against this type of litigation. For example, as described under “Legal Proceedings” below, we and nine other network security companies have been named as defendants in a patent infringement lawsuit. Third party asserted claims or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our customers, end-users, manufacturers, suppliers, partners or distributors, alleging infringement of intellectual property rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. The litigation process can be costly and is subject to inherent uncertainties, so we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. In addition to the expense and distraction associated with litigation, adverse determinations could cause us to lose our proprietary rights, prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, require us to obtain licenses to patents or other intellectual property rights that our products are alleged to infringe, which licenses may not be available on reasonable commercial terms or at all, and subject us to significant liabilities including indemnities to our customers and others for losses resulting from such claims. Future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. From time to time we have been, and may be in the future, subject to litigation, including stockholder derivative actions. Risks associated with legal liability are difficult to assess and quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim, and there can be no assurance as to the continued availability of this insurance. We may in the future be the target of additional proceedings, with or without merit, and these proceedings may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to Manufacturing We primarily utilize a just-in-time contract manufacturing and inventory process and depend on a limited number of manufacturers of our hardware products, which increases our vulnerability to supply disruption. We primarily utilize a just-in-time contract manufacturing and inventory process. Therefore, our ability to meet our customers’ demand for our products depends upon obtaining adequate hardware platforms on a timely basis and integrating them with our software. We purchase hardware platforms from a limited number of contract manufacturers. The unexpected termination of our relationship with any of these manufacturers would be disruptive to our business and our reputation, and could result in a material decline in our revenue as well as shipment delays and possible increased costs as we seek and implement production with an alternative manufacturer. In addition, we rely on our contract manufacturers to source the components for our hardware platforms and they in turn obtain materials from a limited number of suppliers. These suppliers may extend lead times, limit the supply to our manufacturers or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we work closely with our manufacturers and suppliers to avoid shortages, we may encounter these problems in the future. Our results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of hardware platforms in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of hardware platforms or problems with the quality of those hardware platforms. 23 In some cases, we purchase products from contract manufacturers and hold them in inventory pending sale to our customers. If demand for these products does not meet our expectations, or if these products become obsolete, we could be required to write down the value of our inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Although we primarily utilize a just-in-time contract manufacturing and inventory process, in some cases we purchase products from contract manufacturers based on our expectations of future demand. We then hold these products in inventory pending sale to our customers. Demand for these products may not meet our expectations as a result of a number of factors, including weakness in general economic conditions, reductions in our customers’ purchasing budgets, discounting of prices on competitive products, defects or perceived defects in the products or the introduction by us or our competitors of new or enhanced products. In the past, we have recognized expenses related to inventory write-offs and, in the future, if we reduce our estimate of future demand for our products held in inventory, or if our inventory becomes obsolete, we may be required to record additional inventory write-offs, which could negatively impact our gross margin and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. Since the time of our initial public offering in March 2007, the market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations, and we expect this volatility to continue for the foreseeable future. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, our stock traded between a high of $27.80 per share and a low of $5.12 per share. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price are the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results compared to market expectations; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or reports by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of similar companies or of our competitors; • liquidity and activity in the market for our common stock; • actual or expected sales of our common stock by our stockholders; • strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Stock markets in general, and the stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that they might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain. As of March 5, 2010, we had 27,307,225 outstanding shares of common stock. This number includes shares held by institutional investors who own a significant majority of our common stock. This number also includes shares held by directors and officers who may sell such shares at their discretion, subject to volume limitations contained in federal securities laws. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate. 24 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan could make an acquisition of our company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and our ability to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from engaging in specified acquisition transactions with us. Furthermore, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan under which we would issue preferred stock rights upon specified events, which could substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, Delaware corporate law and our stockholder rights plan collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with us, they would apply even if stockholders consider the offer to be beneficial. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 