ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS, AMONG OTHERS, MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE, OF THE COMPANY. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. WE ARE SUBJECT TO, AMONG OTHERS, THE FOLLOWING RISKS: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RAISE ADEQUATE FUNDS TO COMPLETE THE CONSTRUCTION OF OUR NEW HEADQUARTERS, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING FACITILITIES BEING BUILT BY LIFE RESOURCES. In December 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire Life Resources, a company which is currently constructing research and development, manufacturing and logistic facilities, as well as administrative offices totaling approximately 420,000 square meters in Tianjin, China. We currently estimate that the budget for completion of the Life Resources project will be approximately $220 million, including the $64 million already spent to acquire all of the registered share capital of Life Resources. We intend to construct the facilities in phases over several years, based on available cash and capacity needs. Depending on the rate of construction and our cash flow, we may require additional financing to complete the funding of that project. If we are not able to fund the completion of the new facilities, our future growth opportunities may be limited. OUR REPUTATION, REVENUES AND OPERATING INCOME MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. As a manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, claims may be brought against us that a product injured its consumer. Our dietary supplement products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. 7 OUR NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE COMPATIBLE WITH MARKET NEEDS. Our business is particularly subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. Because markets for nutrition supplement products differentiate geographically, we must accurately assess demand in each specific market into which we wish to make sales. If we fail to accurately assess consumer health needs in each market we target, we may face limited market acceptance of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and revenue. OUR PRODUCTS MUST KEEP PACE WITH ADVANCES IN THE INDUSTRY OR THEY MAY BE DISPLACED BY COMPETITORS’ NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS. The nutrition supplement products industry is characterized by rapid product development, with significant competitive advantages gained by companies that introduce products that are first to market, deliver constant innovation in products and techniques, offer frequent new product introductions and have competitive prices. Our future growth partially depends on our ability to develop products that are more effective in meeting consumer needs. In addition, we must be able to manufacture and effectively market those products. The sales of our existing products may decline if a competing product is introduced by other companies. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: · accurately anticipate consumer needs; · innovate and develop new products; · successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; · price our products competitively; · manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and · differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we fail to do any of the above or we focus on technologies that do not lead to more effective products, our current and future products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of others. OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE COPIED BY OUR COMPETITORS. In general, we rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We have been issued patents from the State Intellectual Properties Office in China for two of our products: Tianshi Super Calcium Powder with Metabolic Factors and Tianshi Super Calcium Powder for Children. These two patents are effective for 20 years, which commenced on January 13, 2001. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and trade secrets, our competitors may copy our products, which could hurt our business. OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS. There are risks associated with ingredients mixing and production processes and techniques. Our manufacturing process requires a significant degree of technical expertise. If we fail to manufacture our products to specifications or inadvertently use defective materials in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce nearly all of the proprietary products we sell. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force majeure, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. 8 WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL OVER THE ACTIVITIES OF OUR DISTRIBUTORS. We place significant reliance on a network of affiliates to act as our primary sales force. Although a majority of our affiliated companies are controlled in whole or part by Jinyuan Li, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, such affiliates are not employed or otherwise controlled by us and are generally free to conduct their business at their own discretion. The distributors are dedicated more to establishing their own reputations and business relationships than to promoting our products. The simultaneous loss of a number of these distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS WITH RELATED PARTIES, AND YOUR INVESTMENT MAY BE SUBJECT TO CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND SELF-DEALING RISKS. Due to the inter-related ownership and business dealings among us and our affiliates, there are conflict of interest and self-dealing risks and increased potential for manipulation of financial results. We have affiliated companies or business entities that are owned by Jinyuan Li and his immediate family members (mostly his daughter Baolan Li). Although all affiliated companies and business entities were established so that they are legally and financially independent, except for the common ownership, they are centrally administrated by Tianshi Group. The decisions of Tianshi Group could materially affect the operation of our business, which could be adverse to our investors. We sell all of our products for resale in China to Tianshi Engineering. As both we and Tianshi Engineering are majority owned by Jinyuan Li, even given consideration to the internal price transferring policies set among the related parties, these internal policies could be faulty or might not be strictly followed. WE FACE RISKS DUE TO OUR RELIANCE ON SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. Our future success will depend in part on the continued expansion of international sales. Such international operations expose us to certain risks, including but not limited to; a need for export licenses; unexpected regulatory requirements; tariffs and other potential trade barriers and restrictions; political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; longer account receivable cycles; difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; foreign currency fluctuations; limited protection of our intellectual property rights in some countries; dependence on local distributors; and potential disruptions in sales due to military or terrorist acts. Any or a combination of these risks could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION OVER NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENT PRODUCTS IN MARKETS OUTSIDE CHINA. Nutrition supplement products are subject to regulatory requirements that vary by country. Obtaining approval to sell nutrition supplement products internationally involves complexities of dealing with a variety of governmental regulations. We have limited experience in dealing with the specific regulations that may be required to sell our products in certain international markets, which could delay our ability to obtain relevant regulatory approval for our products. In addition, our product sales in other countries are subject to product regulatory regimes of various degrees and direct marketing or distribution regulations. Although currently these aspects are handled by our affiliated distributors in the relevant jurisdictions, there can be no assurance that the current operations of our company and our affiliates and distributors will not be adversely affected by compliance issues and changes in applicable laws and regulations in relevant jurisdictions. THE DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION OUTSIDE CHINA. Products distributed outside China are subject to government regulations of different jurisdictions, which could be stricter than in China. In some developed countries, the government regulations for product approval could be stricter than in China, while in developing countries, government regulation could be uncertain. Our products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval or may never gain approval in certain countries, which could limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute products. In addition, in terms of our marketing approach, multi-level marketing may also be prohibited in some countries. As such, our sales may be adversely affected if such approval cannot be obtained in certain jurisdictions. 9 OUR MANAGEMENT LACKS EXPERIENCE OPERATING A U.S. PUBLIC COMPANY. Our management had no experience operating a U.S. public company before our acquisition of Tianshi Holdings. The initial difficulties with public company regulations faced by U.S. managers of a newly public company are aggravated with respect to our management, by our unfamiliarity with Western regulatory regimes and language and time zone differences. In addition, management must integrate new accounting rules and control procedures. Learning compliance is likely to distract management from operations to a greater degree than might be the case of management of a U.S. company, and the period during which our management masters the rules, when errors are more likely to occur, may be longer. Accordingly, the expense and operational risks inherent to a transition from private to public company are greater for Tiens USA than might usually be the case. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. As most of our operations are conducted in China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. Although the majority of productive assets in China are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: · We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; · The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; and · Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. A RECENT CAMPAIGN IMPOSED BY THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT AGAINST THE EXPORT OF UNSAFE FOOD AND SUBSTANDARD PRODUCTS, IN HINDERING OUR ABILITY TO EXPORT OUR PRODUCTS INTERNATIONALLY. In August 2007, China’s Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (“AQSIQ”) announced an ongoing national campaign in China against unsafe food and substandard products. The special campaign against poor product quality was launched in response to a series safety scares involving Chinese products worldwide. The campaign set 20 detailed goals, including twelve "100 percents". For example, 100 percent of food producers should be licensed; 100 percent of agricultural wholesale markets in cities must be monitored; 100 percent of suppliers of raw materials for exported products should be inspected; and 100 percent of agricultural products must be free of five types of strong pesticides. The campaign, which was originally scheduled to finish at the end of 2007, is currently scheduled to continue throughout 2008. As a result of this campaign by the AQSIQ, there has been a general slow-down and backlog of export clearances for Chinese food products, and we have experienced significant delays in obtaining export clearance for all of the products which we sell to our international affiliates. We believe that these delays have resulted in some of our international affiliates not being able to purchase sufficient quantities of our products to meet their demand, resulting in a loss of sales. Continued delays in the export clearance for our products may continue to result in us not being able to meet the demand for our products from our international affiliates and future loss of sales. Currently we are not able to provide an estimate as to the timing for the clearance of our products for export. 10 THE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, MANUFACTURING AND MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS IN CHINA. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and the sale and distribution of wellness products. Tianshi Engineering is also subject to government regulations with respect to the prices it will charge, the rebates it may offer to customers and the methods of its marketing. Government regulation may substantially increase the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. UNCERTAINTY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECT SELLING REGULATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS IN CHINA. Substantially all of our assets are located in China, and approximately 56.0%, 40.5% and 40.9% of our revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our operations are subject, to a significant degree, to Chinese law. In China, we are aiming to expand our market share through the branches, chain stores, and affiliated companies of Tianshi Engineering, our affiliate who sells our products in China. Because direct selling was only recently authorized in China, the regulatory environment with respect to direct selling in this market remains fluid and the process for obtaining the necessary governmental approvals have been interpreted differently by different governmental authorities. The direct selling regulations require Tianshi Engineering to apply for approval to conduct a direct selling enterprise in China. Tianshi Engineering has applied for a direct selling license in a number of provinces and must obtain a series of approvals from the Departments of Commerce in such provinces, as well as the Departments of Commerce in each city and district in which we plan to operate. Tianshi Engineering is also required to obtain the approval of the State Ministry of Commerce, which is the national government authority overseeing direct selling. Tianshi Engineering has found that it is taking more time than anticipated to work through the approval process with the Chinese authorities. These authorities have broad discretion in interpreting the regulations and granting necessary approvals. A delay in obtaining approvals at one level can delay our ability to obtain approvals at the next level. The complexity of the approval process as well as the government’s continued cautious approach as direct selling develops in China makes it difficult to predict a timeline for obtaining these approvals. If Tianshi Engineering does not receive a direct selling license in China, then its ability to compete against its competitors who have received such a license may be hurt. As a result, Tianshi Engineering may lose distributors who find a competitor’s direct selling business and compensation model more attractive. This could materially decrease the revenues that we receive from sales by Tianshi Engineering in China. WE MAY NOT BE REFUNDED MONIES WE HAVE PAID FOR THE TIENS YIHAI PROPERTY. In 2005, the Chinese central government issued its “Adjustment of Macro-Economic Policy”. This policy implemented a new system of investment and use of state-owned assets, including land. Pursuant to this policy, local government organizations adjusted and re-allotted projects, including investment, construction and reconstruction of state-owned resources. As a result, projects and enterprises that had been affected, including Tiens Yihai, were awaiting further decisions by state and local government. On November 10, 2006, Tiens International and the Local Government entered into a supplemental agreement pursuant to which the parties have agreed to the acquisition of land use rights by Tiens Yihai of a reduced 486 mu (80 acres) parcel of land. In order to proceed with the purchase of land use rights of the property by Tiens Yihai, Tianshi Holdings is required to provide a loan of $6.4 million to the Local Government for relocation costs for people living on the property. The $6.4 million loan is to be funded in two installments: · The first installment of $3.2 million was paid on November 27, 2006. · The second installment of $3.2 million is to be paid after Tiens Yihai obtains a construction license to develop the property. The parties have agreed to allow Tianshi Holdings to reduce this second installment by the amount of the $1.6 million refund due to it. 11 In return for the loan, Tiens Yihai will receive a tax credit in the amount of the loan. In March 2007, we received notice that the Local Government had approved the land use rights for 50 acres of the Tiens Yihai property. As a result of the reduction in the number of acres for which we have received land use rights and continued uncertainty relating to the Tiens Yihai project, management made a decision to suspend the development of the project. We are currently reviewing alternative commercial uses for the Tiens Yihai site, as well as the possibility of selling the land use rights to a third party. If Tiens Yihai does not proceed with construction on the Tiens Yihai site or is not able to sell the land use rights to a third party, it is not clear whether the Local Government will return the $1.6 million it previously agreed to refund or repay the initial loan of $3.2 million made in November 2006. THE LEGAL AUTHORITIES IN CHINA ARE IN THE PROCESS OF EVALUATING HERETOFORE TAX AND FEE BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FOREIGN INVESTORS AND COMPANIES TO ENCOURAGE DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE COUNTRY SUCH THAT THESE BENEFITS MAY BE LESSENED OR REMOVED WITH THE CONSEQUENCE THAT EXPENSES MAY RISE IMPACTING MARGINS AND NET INCOME. Biological is located in Tianjin Wuqing Development Area, a national new technology development zone, and is subject to the special reduced income tax rate of 15%. Pursuant to the approval of the relevant PRC tax authorities, Biological is fully exempt from PRC income taxes for two years starting from the year profits are first made, followed by a 7.5% reduced tax rate for the next three years. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2002, Biological suffered operating losses. Biological started generating taxable profits in the year ended December 31, 2003. Effective January 1, 2005, the two-year full exemption for income taxes expired for Biological and it became subject to income tax at a reduced rate of 7.5%. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT”) law will replace the existing laws for Domestic Enterprises (“DES”) and Foreign Invested Enterprises (“FIEs”). The new standard EIT rate of 25% will replace the 33% rate currently applicable to both DES and FIEs. The two years tax exemption, three years 50% tax reduction tax holiday for production-oriented FIEs will be eliminated. According to the new EIT, high-tech companies could be subject to a special reduced tax rate of 15%. The qualification of a high-tech company is to be reviewed annually. Biological currently qualifies as a high-tech company. However, there are no detailed regulations regarding the implementation of new EIT. In the first quarter of 2008, we were required by local tax authority to prepay income tax at a tax rate of 25%. We are currently evaluating the effect of the new EIT law will have on our financial position. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX CHINESE BUSINESS REGULATIONS. As China changes its economy from planned to more market-oriented, uncertainties arise regarding governmental policies and measures. Although, in recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and establishment of sound corporate governance practices, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. For example, all lands are state owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental grants of state-owned land use rights. The grant process is typically based on government policies at the time of grant, which can be lengthy and complex and may adversely affect our planned manufacturing expansion. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through allocation of resources, foreign currency control and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. BECAUSE MOST OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS RESIDE OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR ASSETS ARE LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO ENFORCE THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS AGAINST SUCH INDIVIDUALS OR SUCH ASSETS. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Although China has executed the Agreement on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters with the United States in June 2000, there is no extradition treaty between the United States and China. Therefore, it is unclear whether criminal penalties under United States federal securities laws would be enforced effectively in China, if at all. 12 OUR OPERATING COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS TO US. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. THE CHINESE LEGAL SYSTEM IS NOT FULLY DEVELOPED AND HAS INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD LIMIT THE LEGAL PROTECTIONS AVAILABLE TO INVESTORS. The Chinese legal system is a system based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited legal precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. Two examples are the promulgation of the Contract Law of the PRC to unify the various economic contract laws into a single code, which went into effect on October 1, 1999, and the Securities Law of the People’s Republic of China, which went into effect on July 1, 1999. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS IN CHINA MAY BE INCONSISTENT. Although the Chinese government introduced new laws and regulations to modernize its securities and tax systems on January 1, 1994, China does not yet possess an expansive body of business law. As a result, the enforcement, interpretation and implementation of regulations may prove to be inconsistent and it may be difficult to enforce contracts. WE MAY EXPERIENCE LENGTHY DELAYS IN RESOLUTION OF LEGAL DISPUTES. As China has not developed a dispute resolution mechanism similar to the Western court system, dispute resolution over Chinese projects and joint ventures can be difficult and there is no assurance that any dispute involving our business in China can be resolved expeditiously and satisfactorily. CHINESE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS AS WELL AS GOVERNMENT POLICIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. All of our assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 13 The economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, but growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures from time to time to control the rate of economic growth. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by: · changes in the rate or method of taxation; · imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad; · reduction in tariff or quota protection and other import restrictions; and · changes in the usage and costs of state-controlled transportation services. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE CHINESE RENMINBI RELATIVE TO FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Substantially all our revenues and expenses are denominated in the Chinese Renminbi. However, we use the United States dollar for financial reporting purposes. The value of Chinese Renminbi against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The Chinese government values the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just exclusively the United States dollar. Although the Chinese government has stated its intention to support the value of the Chinese Renminbi, we cannot assure you that the government will not revalue it. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Chinese Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Chinese Renminbi would be reduced. To date, we have not engaged in any hedging transactions in connection with our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS AFFECTED BY ITS LIMITED TRADING MARKET. Shares of our common stock are traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “TBV”. There is currently no broadly followed established trading market for our common stock. An established trading market may never develop or be maintained. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. The absence of an active trading market reduces the liquidity of shares. The trading volume of our common stock historically has been limited and sporadic. As a result of this trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, if we cease to be quoted, holders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock and the market value of our common stock likely would decline. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RELATING TO “PENNY STOCK”. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in such regulations) of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock meets the definition of a penny stock, it will be subjected to these regulations, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. WE ARE MAJORITY OWNED BY ONE STOCKHOLDER. Our president and chief executive officer, Jinyuan Li, controls a majority of our common stock. Mr. Li beneficially owns approximately 92% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Li has the ability to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such change of control would benefit our other shareholders. OUR COMMON STOCK WILL LIKELY BE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL PRICE AND VOLUME FLUCTUATIONS. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. In addition, there has been a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will be maintained. Such interest is necessary for an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. The price and trading volumes of our common stock may fluctuate widely due to the limited public market for our stock. 14 SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY DILUTE AND DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144, and their sale could depress the market price of our stock. Some or all of the shares of common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for the shares of common stock. In general, a person who has held restricted shares for a period of one year may, upon filing with the SEC a notification on Form 144, sell into the market common stock in an amount equal to the greater of 1% of the outstanding shares or the average weekly number of shares sold in the last four weeks prior to such sale. Such sales may be repeated once each three months, and any of the restricted shares may be sold by a non-affiliate after they have been held two years. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, AND THE LACK OF DIVIDENDS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE STOCK PRICE. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 