ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations Our management and our independent registered public accounting firm, in their report on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, have concluded that due to our need for additional capital, and the uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise such funding, substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the next twelve months and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from our inability to continue as a going concern. Our management and our independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that due to our need for additional capital, and the uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise such funding, substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be forced to reduce our operating expenses, raise additional funds, principally through the additional sales of our securities or debt financings, or enter into a corporate partnership to meet our working capital needs. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital or complete a strategic transaction, we may be unable to continue to fund our operations, develop our product candidates or realize value from our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. These uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets, and might realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements, and stockholders may lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. Our cash and cash equivalents may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the second quarter of 2012. Assuming our current costs of operations remain relatively unchanged over the next several months, our present cash and cash equivalents, together with anticipated proceeds from the sale of our equities, may not be sufficient to fund our operations beyond the second quarter of 2012. Unless we are able to raise additional funds from our financing efforts prior to such time, we may not be able to support our operations and may be forced to cease operations and dissolve the Company. Although we believe that we have been prudent in this assessment of the rate at which its cash and cash equivalents may be expended, no assurance can be given that such assessment will prove accurate and readers are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance thereon. - 18 - Table of Contents We do not have significant operating revenue and we may never attain profitability. Our ability to achieve significant revenue or profitability depends upon our ability to successfully complete the development of product candidates, to develop and obtain patent protection and regulatory approvals for our product candidates and to manufacture and commercialize the resulting products. We may not generate significant revenues or profits from the sale of these products in the future. Furthermore, we may not be able to ever successfully identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, obtain required regulatory approvals and market any additional products. Moreover, even if we do identify, develop, commercialize, patent, manufacture, and obtain required regulatory approvals to market additional products, we may not generate revenues or royalties from commercial sales of these products for a significant number of years, if at all. Therefore, our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. In the next few years, our revenues may be limited to minimal product sales and royalties, amounts that we receive under strategic partnerships and research or product development collaborations that we may establish and, as a result, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability in the future or to achieve significant revenues to fund our operations. A failure to obtain necessary additional capital in the future could jeopardize our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative equity ownership of our existing investors would be diluted and the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. A failure to obtain additional funding to support our working capital and operating requirements could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to maintain our operations. Our financial condition may limit our ability to borrow funds or to raise additional equity as may be required to fund our future operations. Our ability to borrow funds or raise additional equity may be limited by our financial condition. Additionally, events such as our inability to continue to reduce our loss from continuing operations, could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to attract additional funding as required. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350-30, Intangibles Other than Goodwill requires that we test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. In addition, under ASC Topic 350-30, long-lived assets with finite lives are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant decrease in the fair value of a long-lived asset, an adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition or an expectation that a long-lived asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life are among several of the factors that could result in an impairment charge. We evaluate intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sales or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below our book value for an extended period of time. We evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. - 19 - Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time; we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The success of our research and development activities, upon which we primarily focus, is uncertain. Our primary focus is on our research and development activities and the commercialization of products covered by proprietary biopharmaceutical patents and applications. Research and development activities, by their nature, preclude definitive statements as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. Actual research and development costs, therefore, could exceed budgeted amounts and estimated time frames may require extension. Cost overruns, unanticipated regulatory delays or demands, unexpected adverse side effects or insufficient therapeutic efficacy will prevent or substantially slow our research and development effort and our business could ultimately suffer. We may not successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceuticals based on new technologies and our failure to develop safe, commercially viable products would severely limit our ability to become profitable or to achieve significant revenues. We may be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates because: § some or all of our product candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory clearances; § our product candidates, if safe and effective, may be too difficult to develop into commercially viable products; § it may be difficult to manufacture or market our product candidates in a large scale; § proprietary rights of third parties may preclude us from marketing our product candidates; and § third parties may market superior or equivalent products. - 20 - Table of Contents If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize Altrazeal®. We are marketing and selling Altrazeal® through a combination of our own sales force and a network of independent sales representatives (“ISR’s”) in the United States. If we are unable to establish the capabilities to sell, market and distribute Altrazeal®, either through our own sales force, our existing ISR capabilities or by entering into agreements with others, or to maintain such capabilities in countries where we have already commenced commercial sales, we will not be able to successfully sell Altrazeal®. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain our own sales force, our ISR capabilities, or enter into and maintain any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we hire ISR’s or qualified sales and marketing personnel we need in the United States to support our objectives, or enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis. We may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell Altrazeal®. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of Altrazeal®. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing Altrazeal®. We may be unable to successfully develop, market, or commercialize our products or our product candidates without establishing new relationships and maintaining current relationships. Our strategy for the research, development and commercialization of our potential pharmaceutical products may require us to enter into various arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others, in addition to our existing relationships with other parties. Specifically, we may need to joint venture, sublicense or enter other marketing arrangements with parties that have an established marketing capability or we may choose to pursue the commercialization of such products. Furthermore, if we maintain and establish arrangements or relationships with third parties, our business may depend upon the successful performance by these third parties of their responsibilities under those arrangements and relationships. Our ability to successfully commercialize, and market our products and product candidates could be limited if a number of our existing relationships were terminated. We may be unable to successfully manufacture our products and our product candidates in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes without the assistance of contract manufacturers, which may be difficult for us to obtain and maintain. We have limited experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products in clinical quantities or for commercial purposes, and we may not be able to manufacture any new pharmaceutical products that we may develop. As a result, we have established, and in the future intend to establish, arrangements with contract manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of products to conduct clinical trials and for the manufacture, packaging, labeling, and distribution of finished pharmaceutical products. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of our pharmaceutical products on acceptable terms, our preclinical and human clinical testing schedule may be delayed, resulting in the delay of our clinical programs and submission of product candidates for regulatory approval, which could cause our business to suffer. Our business could suffer if there are delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, label and distribute our finished pharmaceutical or other medical products, if any, and the market introduction and subsequent sales of such products. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, as required by FDA. In this regard, the FDA will not issue a pre-market approval or product and establishment licenses, where applicable, to a manufacturing facility for the products until the manufacturing facility passes a pre-approval plant inspection. If we are unable to obtain or retain third party manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our potential dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our ability to generate profits or acceptable profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. - 21 - Table of Contents We may incur substantial product liability expenses due to the use or misuse of our products for which we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These risks will expand with respect to our drug candidates, if any, that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale, and we may face substantial liability for damages in the event of adverse side effects or product defects identified with any of our products that are used in clinical tests or marketed to the public. We generally procure product liability insurance for product candidates that are undergoing human clinical trials. Product liability insurance for the biotechnology industry is generally expensive, if available at all, and as a result, we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amount in the future, if at all. We may be unable to satisfy any claims for which we may be held liable as a result of the use or misuse of products which we have developed, manufactured or sold and any such product liability could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental regulations. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such material and certain waste products. Although we believe that our activities and our safety procedures for storing, using, handling and disposing of such material comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. Additional federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future, including laws related to climate change. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these laws or regulations. Additionally, we may incur substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our drug or device candidates will substantially depend upon the availability of reimbursement funds for the costs of the resulting drugs or devices and related treatments. The successful commercialization of, and the interest of potential collaborative partners to invest in the development of our drug or device candidates, may depend substantially upon the reimbursement at acceptable levels of the costs of the resulting drugs or devices and related treatments from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. To date, the costs of our marketed products Altrazeal® and Aphthasol® generally have been reimbursed at acceptable levels; however, the amount of such reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere may be decreased in the future or may be unavailable for any drugs or devices that we may develop in the future. Limited reimbursement for the cost of any drugs or devices that we develop may reduce the demand for, or price of such drugs or devices, which would hamper our ability to obtain collaborative partners to commercialize our drugs or devices, or to obtain a sufficient financial return on our own manufacture and commercialization of any future drugs or devices. - 22 - Table of Contents Intense competition may limit our ability to successfully develop and market commercial products. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical, device, and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions. In the area of wound management and burn care, which is the primary focus of our commercialization and development activities, a number of companies are developing or evaluating new technology approaches. Significantly larger companies compete in this marketplace including Smith & Nephew plc, Kinetic Concepts, Inc., ConvaTec Inc., Systagenix Wound Management Limited, 3M Company, Molnlycke Health Care, and numerous other companies. We expect that technological developments will occur at a rapid rate and that competition is likely to intensify as various alternative technologies achieve similar if not identical advantages. Prescription steroids such as Kenalog in OraBase, developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, may compete with our commercialized Aphthasol® product. OTC products including Orajel (Church and Dwight) and Anbesol (Wyeth Consumer Healthcare) also compete in the aphthous ulcer market. Many of these competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, our competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that we are developing or which would render our technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Products resulting from our research and development efforts or from our joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. The market may not accept any pharmaceutical products that we successfully develop. The drugs and devices that we are attempting to develop may compete with a number of well-established drugs and devices manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs or devices developed by us will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of our drug candidates, the potential advantage of our drug candidates over existing therapies and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or use any drugs or devices that we may develop independently or with our collaborative partners and if they do not, our business could suffer. - 23 - Table of Contents Trends toward managed health care and downward price pressure on medical products and services may limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs or devices that we develop. Lower prices for pharmaceutical products may result from: § Third-party payers’ increasing challenges to the prices charged for medical products and services; § The trend toward managed health care in the Unites States and the concurrent growth of HMOs and similar organizations that can control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products; and § Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, including practice protocols and guidelines and clinical pathways, and the effect of any healthcare reform, could limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs or devices that we may successfully develop. Moreover, any future legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement, may cause our business to suffer. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific team. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development, marketing, or product commercialization objectives. While we have employment agreements with our senior management, their employment may be terminated at any time. We do not maintain any "key-man" insurance policies on any of our senior management and we do not intend to obtain such insurance. In addition, due to the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. In view of the stage of our development and our research and development programs, we have restricted our hiring to a small sales team, research scientists and a small administrative staff and we have made only limited investments in manufacturing, production or regulatory compliance resources. There is intense competition among major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, however, and we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval We are subject to extensive governmental regulation which increases our cost of doing business and may affect our ability to commercialize any new products that we may develop. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures to establish their safety and efficacy. Some of our products and product candidates require receipt and maintenance of governmental approvals for commercialization. Preclinical and clinical trials and manufacturing of our product candidates will be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes of the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. - 24 - Table of Contents Due to the time consuming and uncertain nature of the drug and device candidate development process and the governmental approval process described above, we cannot assure you when we, independently or with our collaborative partners, might submit a New Drug Application (“NDA”), or a 510(k), for FDA or other regulatory review. Government regulation also affects the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and medical device products. Government regulations may delay marketing of our potential drugs or potential medical devices for a considerable or indefinite period of time, impose costly procedural requirements upon our activities and furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies or companies more experienced in regulatory affairs. Delays in obtaining governmental regulatory approval could adversely affect our marketing as well as our ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Our drug or device candidates may not receive FDA or other regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug or device candidate is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which such drug or device may be marketed. Even if we obtain initial regulatory approvals for our drug or device candidates, our drugs or devices and our manufacturing facilities would be subject to continual review and periodic inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, or device, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the marketing or manufacture of such drug or device, including withdrawal of the drug or device from the market. The FDA and other regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards and failure to comply with regulatory standards can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The uncertainty associated with preclinical and clinical testing may affect our ability to successfully commercialize new products. Before we can obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our potential products, the product candidates may be subject to extensive preclinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. In this regard, for example, adverse side effects can occur during the clinical testing of a new drug on humans which may delay ultimate FDA approval or even lead us to terminate our efforts to develop the product for commercial use. Companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product candidate. A delay or failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from successfully commercializing such candidates and we could incur substantial additional expenses in our attempts to further develop such candidates and obtain future regulatory approval. Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and privacy laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations, and reputation. - 25 - Table of Contents Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our Common Stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( the “SEC”) have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called “say on pay”) and proxy access. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted final rules concerning “say on pay”. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain U.S. and foreign patent protection for our drug and device candidates and processes, preserve our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical and biotechnology inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing and there is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The patent position of a biotechnology firm is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. We cannot assure you that any existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not subsequently be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. As a result, although we, together with our subsidiaries, are the owner of U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications now pending, and European patents and European patent applications, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will issue from any of the patent applications owned by us. Furthermore, any rights that we may have under issued patents may not provide us with significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. In addition, patents may have been granted to third parties or may be granted covering products or processes that are necessary or useful to the development of our product candidates. If our product candidates or processes are found to infringe upon the patents or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such product candidates could be severely restricted or prohibited. In such event, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to utilize the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we become involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, the potential cost of such litigation, regardless of the strength of our legal position, and the potential damages that we could be required to pay could be substantial. - 26 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock An investment in our common stock may be less attractive because it is not traded on a recognized public market. On March 12, 2012, we notified the NYSE Amex LLC (the “Exchange”) of our intention to file a Form 25 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), on March 22, 2012, to effect the voluntary delisting of our common stock from the Exchange as we intend to move to the OTCQB™ marketplace (the “OTCQB”), operated by the OTC Markets Group. On March 22, 2012, we filed the Form 25 with the SEC and have made arrangements for our common stock to begin quotation and trading on the OTCQB, as of market open, on April 2, 2012. The OTCQB is a market tier for over-the-counter-traded companies that are registered and reporting with the SEC. The OTCQB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to "penny stock" regulations and restrictions on initial and secondary broker-dealer sales. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any listed, trading equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. The regulations require that prior to any non-exempt buy/sell transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule proscribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market must be delivered by a broker-dealer to the purchaser of such penny stock. This disclosure must include the amount of commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current price quotations for our common stock. The regulations also require that monthly statements be sent to holders of penny stock that disclose recent price information for the penny stock and information of the limited market for penny stocks. These requirements adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock is subject to Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes certain sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule 501(c) of the Securities Act). For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. This rule adversely affects the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect your ability to sell your shares of our common stock in the secondary market. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you will have to rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, to earn a return on your investment in our common stock. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. - 27 - Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our Company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine, including for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock. Our charter allows us to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our common stock and to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 20,000 shares of preferred stock. In the event we issue additional shares of our capital stock, dilution to our stockholders could result. In addition, if we issue and designate a class of preferred stock, these securities may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock could lower our stock price. The market price for our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares of common stock or shares that we may issue or be obligated to issue in the future. Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock and cause stockholders to experience dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and our two Secured Convertible Subordinated Notes. We may issue additional shares of common stock through one or more equity transactions in the future to satisfy our capital and operating needs; however, such transactions will be subject to market conditions and there can be no assurance any such transaction will be completed. If we sell shares in the future, the prices at which we sell these future shares will vary, and these variations may be significant. Purchasers of the shares we sell pursuant to future offerings, as well as our existing stockholders, will experience significant dilution if we sell these future shares at prices significantly below the price at which previous shareholders invested. - 28 - Table of Contents We have issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock grants the holders of such preferred stock dividend and liquidations rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance if we will receive any cash proceeds from the sale of common stock to Ironridge Global. Under the terms of the Common Stock Purchase Agreement, Ironridge Global elected to pay for the shares of common stock by issuing to us a secured promissory note. Therefore, it is possible that the promissory note may not be paid upon maturity, and that we may be unable to perfect or collect upon some or all of the underlying collateral. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 