D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our American Depositary Shares or ADSs. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our ADSs. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operation. INDUSTRY SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS The product tanker and dry bulk carrier sectors are cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and results of operations The dry bulk carrier and product tanker sectors are cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of dry bulk carriers and product tankers has varied widely. The charter rates for dry bulk carriers and especially for product tankers remain near historically high levels. If we enter into a charter when charter hire rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The factors affecting the supply and demand for dry bulk carriers and product tankers are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: o demand for and production of dry bulk products, crude oil and refined petroleum products; o the distance cargo is to be moved by sea; o changes in oil production and refining capacity; o global and regional economic and political conditions; o environmental and other regulatory developments; and o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced, oil is refined and cargoes are used. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries; o the scrapping rate of older vessels; o vessel casualties; o price of steel; o number of vessels that are out of service; o changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and o port or canal congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the world's dry bulk carrier and product tanker fleets and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the shipping sectors in which we operate, but the demand for vessel capacity in these sectors does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on but not limited to the following factors: o general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; o competition from other shipping companies; o types and sizes of vessels; o other modes of transportation; o cost of newbuildings; o shipyard capacity; o governmental or other regulations; o age of vessels; o prevailing level of charter rates; and o technological advances. If we sell any of our tankers or dry bulk carriers at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before an impairment adjustment is made to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we shall incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. Our operating results from our fleet are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results Our fleet consists of dry bulk carriers and product tankers. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The dry bulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect our revenues to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, we expect our revenues to be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. If we violate environmental laws or regulations, the resulting liability may significantly and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition Our operations are subject to extensive regulation designed to promote tanker safety, prevent cargo and bunker spills and generally protect the environment. Local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, can subject us to material liabilities in the event that our vessels release oil and oil products or other hazardous substances. For example, the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, provides that owners, operators and bareboat charterers are strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200 nautical mile zone off each coast of the U.S. OPA provides for unlimited liability in some circumstances, such as a vessel operator's gross negligence or willful misconduct or failure to report an incident or cooperate in oil removal activities. However, in other circumstances, OPA limits liability to the greater of USD 1,200 per gross ton or USD 10 million per vessel. Under a recently proposed legislation, OPA liability limits will be increased, when such legislation is enacted, to the greater of USD 1,900 per gross ton or USD 16.0 million per tanker. OPA also permits states to set their own penalty limits. Most U.S. states bordering navigable waterways impose unlimited liability for discharges of oil in their waters. The International Maritime Organization, or IMO, has adopted a similar liability scheme that may impose strict liability for oil spills, subject to limits that do not apply if the release is caused by the vessel owner's intentional or reckless conduct. U.S. law, the law in many of the nations in which we operate and international treaties and conventions that impact our operations also establish strict rules governing vessel safety and structure, training, inspections, financial assurance for potential cleanup liability and other matters. These requirements can limit our ability to operate our vessels and substantially increase our operating costs. Under OPA, all oil tankers that do not have double hulls will be phased out by 2015 and will not be permitted to come to United States ports or trade in United States waters. In addition, OPA specifies annual inspections, vessel manning, equipment and other construction requirements that are in various stages of development by the U.S. Coast Guard, or USCG, applicable to new and to existing vessels. In December 2003, the IMO adopted a proposed amendment to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to accelerate the phase out of single-hull tankers from 2015 to 2010 unless the relevant flag states extend the date to 2015. Moreover, the IMO or other regulatory bodies may adopt further regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of our tankers as well as our inability to generate income from them. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. While all of our tankers are double-hull, we believe that regulation of the tanker industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and for our competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release from one of our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional laws and regulations may also be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material effect on our operations. Government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditure on our vessels to keep them in compliance. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. COMPANY SPECIFIC RISK FACTORS Servicing our debt limits funds available for other purposes and if we cannot service our debt, we may lose some or all of our vessels We must dedicate a large part of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our debt level also makes us vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If we expand our fleet, we will need to take on additional debt, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. Our inability to service debt could also lead to acceleration of our debt and the foreclosure of all or a portion of our fleet. Certain of our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants, which may limit our liquidity and corporate activities and prevent proper service of debt, which could result in the loss of our vessels. Some loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions upon us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: o create liens on our assets; o engage in mergers or acquisitions; o change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and We may need permission from our lenders in order for us to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on time charters, in pools or take advantage of the current spot market We employ the majority of our vessels on spot voyage charters or short term time charters. Our operating results will therefore depend on the prevailing charter rates in a given time period. Charter rates are based in part on supply and demand and are extremely competitive. Significant fluctuations in charter rates will result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. Although we charter out some of our vessels on long term time charters when we want to lock in favorable charter rates and generate predictable revenue streams, our vessels that are committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upswing in the shipping industry, when spot voyages might be more profitable. We are impacted by any increase or decrease in market rates. If rates were to decrease significantly, we may not utilize our fleet fully and our earnings could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the bulk and tanker industries, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations Our management personnel make key decisions to maximize our revenue and earnings in this highly volatile and cyclical industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry-dock repairs that could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our owned vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility or other type of ship repair facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that are not covered by our insurance, which would decrease earnings. Repairs may involve long periods of inactivity, which may have a negative effect on earnings and our ability to service our debt. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings We own both vessels constructed for us directly by builders and previously owned, or secondhand, vessels purchased from other owners. While we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if we buy vessels older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2005, our fleet of owned vessels included two tankers and three bulk vessels more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine and hull technology. After vessels reach 15 years of age, the majority of charterers and oil companies may impose restrictions on vessels that make it more difficult to trade the vessels with optimal flexibility. In addition, these older vessels must meet certain hull thickness tests. Furthermore, cargo insurance rates increase for vessels over 15 years of age, making them less desirable to charterers. We, however, consider a useful lifetime of 25 years to be the best estimate of the economic lifetime of a vessel. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable us to operate them profitably for the remainder of their useful life. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: o marine disaster; o piracy; o environmental accidents; o cargo and property losses or damage; and o business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, political action in various countries, labor strikes, or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of one or more of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator which would adversely affect our revenues. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if one of our vessels is involved in an accident We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, including environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We carry insurance against loss of hire as well. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions, which although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel and commencing foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay a substantial sum of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition one or more of our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could negatively impact our revenues. Our operations expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We are an international company and conduct our operations globally. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and West Africa. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and the United States' continuing response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continues to cause uncertainty in the world commercial markets, including the energy markets. The recent conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism, armed conflict and civil disturbance around the world, which may contribute to further, instability, including in the oil markets. The likelihood of acts of terrorism in the Middle East region and Southeast Asia may increase as shown by the attempted attacks on the Basra Oil Terminal in April 2004 and the attacks on employees of Exxon in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia in early May 2004, and our vessels trading in those areas may face a higher risk of being attacked. Future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involves, or will involve, the loading or discharging of raw materials in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience negative growth in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. Because we generate nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but incur some of our expenses in Danish Kroner and other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations In 2005, we generated nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incurred approximately 81% of our expenses in U.S dollars and 15% was incurred in Danish Kroner. A change in exchange rates could lead to fluctuations in our reported net income. Interest rate fluctuations may significantly affect our loan payments, which could adversely affect our financial condition As of December 31, 2005, all of our loans bore interest at floating rates. Increases in prevailing rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders. As of December 31, 2005, we had entered into interest swap agreements expiring between 2006 and 2010 for approximately 61% of the then outstanding principal amounts of our loans that may mitigate some of our exposure to the risk of rising interest rates. However, increases in interest rates will increase our payments under loans not covered by caps of the interest rates of our loans and swap agreements and may negatively affect our earnings and cash flow. Because we are a non-U.S. corporation, you may not have the same rights that a creditor of a U.S. corporation may have Our investors may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. In addition, the executive officers and administrative activities and assets of the Company are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company, or to enforce both in the United States and outside the United States judgments against the Company in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against our officers, our directors and us We are a Danish company and our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this registration statement reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets and the assets of our officers, directors and experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing any judgments obtained in U.S. courts to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgments. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Denmark would (1) enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our officers and directors predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal or state securities laws, or (2) entertain original actions brought in Danish courts against us or our officers and directors predicated on United States federal or state securities laws. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against our directors, officers and non-U.S. experts. There may be no active public market for you to resell our ADSs The price of our ADSs may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; o mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; o market conditions in the industry; o changes in government regulation; o fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; o shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; o announcements concerning us or our competitors; and o the general state of the securities market. Historically, the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for ADSs in the shipping industry may be equally volatile. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange is smaller and less liquid than the major securities exchanges or markets in the United States. The trading volume of our shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange has been volatile. It may be hard to predict future trading levels or volatility. Consequently, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. Holders of ADSs may experience delays in receiving information and materials that holders of our common shares may not The ADSs are securities that have been issued by a depositary with whom we have deposited our common shares. The depositary is responsible for distributing notices and voting materials to holders of the ADSs. If there is any delay in such distributions on the part of the depositary, you may not receive such dividends or materials concurrently with holders of our common shares in Denmark, and may not receive such materials in time for you to instruct the depositary to vote. You may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive when the dividend was approved Under Danish law, the board of directors proposes dividends and the shareholders vote whether to accept the proposal or to lower the dividend. We will pay any dividends in Danish Kroner to our depository agent for the ADSs, and our depository agent will convert the amounts into U.S. dollars at the relevant exchange rate and distribute the dividend to you. If the Danish Kroner depreciates against the U.S. dollar before our depository agent distributes the dividend, you may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive at the time the dividend was approved by shareholders. 