Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategic direction, prospects and future results. Certain factors, including factors outside of our control, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. The following risk factors should be read in connection with evaluating our business and future prospects. All forward looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made. Such uncertainties include, among others, the following factors: Our sales and operations may be adversely affected by local, regional or national economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Various economic conditions affect the level of disposable income consumers have available to spend on the merchandise we offer including employment, interest rates, taxation, energy costs, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and general business conditions. Accordingly, consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods, and also may decline at other times when changes in consumer spending patterns affect us unfavorably. Therefore, our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by economic conditions on a local, regional and/or national level. In addition, any significant decreases in shopping mall traffic could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we were unable to identify and respond to consumers’ fashion preferences, domestically and/or internationally, in a timely manner, our profitability would decline. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapidly changing fashion trends, both domestically and/or internationally, and consumer tastes inherent in the teen apparel industry. We produce casual, comfortable apparel, a majority of which displays the “Aéropostale”, “Aéro” or “P.S. from Aéropostale” logo. There can be no assurance that fashion trends will not move away from casual clothing or that we will not have to alter our design strategy to reflect changes in consumer preferences. Failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles, trends, desired images or brand preferences could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. In order to generate customer traffic, we must locate our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls, or the success of individual shopping malls. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the loss of an anchor or other significant tenant in a shopping mall in which we have a store, or the closure of a significant number of shopping malls in which we have stores, either by a single landlord with a large portfolio of malls, or by a number of smaller individual landlords, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations may cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historic levels of comparable store sales. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • actions of competitors or mall anchor tenants; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • fashion trends; 10 Table of Contents • changes in our merchandise mix; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the timing of promotional events; and • weather conditions. If our future comparable store sales fail to meet the expectations of investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. You should refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. Our continued expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors which, if not implemented, could delay or prevent the successful opening of new stores and penetration into new markets. Unless we continue to do the following, we may be unable to open new stores successfully and, in turn, our continued growth would be impaired: • identify suitable markets and sites for new store locations; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • hire, train and retain competent store personnel; • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; • manage inventory and distribution effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; and • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plans. There are a finite number of suitable locations and malls within the United States and Canada in which to locate our Aéropostale stores. Our inability to open new stores successfully and/or penetrate new markets would have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings growth. Additionally, as we reach that maximum number of Aéropostale locations in North America, there can be no assurance we will continue to locate additional suitable locations for our Aéropostale stores, and as such, the future store growth of Aéropostale in the United States and Canada will be adversely affected. Foreign suppliers manufacture most of our merchandise and the availability and costs of these products may be negatively affected by risks associated with inflationary economic conditions or international trade. Trade restrictions such as increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could affect the importation of apparel in general and increase the cost and reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Our merchandise is sourced directly from foreign vendors whose manufacturing facilities are located primarily in Asia and Central America. In addition, many of our domestic vendors maintain production facilities overseas. Global inflationary economic conditions would likely increase the costs of manufacturing the goods we sell in our stores. Any reduction in merchandise available to us or any increase in its cost due to inflationary economic conditions or tariffs, quotas or local political issues could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If manufacturing costs were to rise significantly, our business may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We rely on a small number of vendors to supply a significant amount of our merchandise. During fiscal 2009, we sourced approximately 81% of our merchandise from our top five merchandise vendors. During fiscal 2008, we sourced approximately 76% of our merchandise from our top five merchandise vendors. Our relationships with our suppliers generally are not on a long-term contractual basis and do not provide assurances on a long-term basis as to adequate supply, quality or acceptable pricing. Most of our suppliers could discontinue selling to us at any time. If one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy relies on the continued addition of a significant number of new stores each year, which could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing stores to suffer. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. In fiscal 2009, we opened 24 Aéropostale stores in the U.S. including Puerto Rico, 15 Aéropostale stores in Canada and 14 P.S. from Aéropostale stores. In fiscal 2008, we opened 72 Aéropostale stores in the U.S. including Puerto Rico and 17 Aéropostale stores in Canada. In fiscal 2007, we opened 76 Aéropostale stores in the U.S. and 12 Aéropostale stores in Canada. We expect to continue to open new stores in the future. We also anticipate remodeling a portion of our existing Aéropostale store base at the appropriate times. To the extent that our new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in previously existing stores i n those same markets. There are however a finite number of suitable locations and malls within the United States and Canada in which to locate our Aéropostale stores. As we reach that maximum number of locations, there can be no assurance we will continue to find additional locations which are suitable for our Aéropostale stores, and as such, the future store growth of Aéropostale in the United States and Canada will be adversely affected. Failure of new business concepts would have a negative effect on our results of operations. We expect that the introduction of new brand concepts, such as the launch in fiscal 2009 of our new store brand concept P.S. from Aéropostale, as well as other new business opportunities, such as international expansion, will play an important role in our overall growth strategy. Our ability to succeed in a new brand concept requires significant expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new brand is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers, diversion of management’s attention from our core Aéropostale business and the ability to obtain suitable sites for new stores. Our experience with our Jimmy’Z brand, which we have now closed, demons trates that there can be no assurance that new brands will grow or become profitable. Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer’s inability to produce merchandise on time and to our specifications. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore we depend upon independent third parties to manufacture all of our merchandise. We utilize both domestic and international manufacturers to produce our merchandise. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or meet our quality standards could cause delivery date requirements to be missed, which could result in lost sales. In addition, if manufacturing costs were to rise significantly, our business may be adversely affected. Our business could suffer if a manufacturer fails to use acceptable labor practices. Our sourcing agents and independent manufacturers are required to operate in compliance with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations. While our vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices for our vendors and suppliers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or sourcing agent’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To help mitigate this risk, we engage a third part y independent contractor to visit the production facilities from which we receive our products. This independent contractor assesses the compliance of the facility with, among other things, local and United States labor laws and regulations as well as foreign and domestic fair trade and business practices. 12 Table of Contents Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores. The large majority of the merchandise we purchase is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts with our vendors and the imports of our merchandise by our vendors are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at United States ports, which could delay delivery of goods; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of additional or greater duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) ;delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of our vendors to comply with applicable import regulations; and (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to unexpected or significant port congestion or labor disruption at United States ports. Any inability on our part to rely on our vendors and our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unexpected loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our key executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail industry and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect us. Specifically, if we were to unexpectedly lose the services of Mindy C. Meads, our Co-Chief Executive Officer; Thomas P. Johnson, our Co-Chief Executive Officer, or Michael J. Cunningham, our President and Chief Financial Officer, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, departures of any other senior executives or key performers in the Company could also adversely affect our operations. A substantial interruption in our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the security and integrity of electronic data and our management information systems for many aspects of our business. We may be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or compromised or we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our management information systems. A significant decrease in sales during peak shopping seasons could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and net income are disproportionately higher from August through January each year due to increased sales from back-to-school and holiday shopping. Sales during this period cannot be used as an accurate indicator for our annual results. Our net sales and net income from February through July are typically lower due to, in part, the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the winter holiday season. Any significant decrease in sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for o ur products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, our business is also subject, at certain times, to calendar shifts which may occur during key selling times such as school holidays, Easter and regional fluctuations in the calendar during the back-to-school selling season. We rely on third parties to manage our distribution centers and transport our merchandise to our stores; a disruption of our distribution activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to distribute, in a timely manner, our merchandise to our store locations throughout the United States and Canada. We currently lease and maintain two, third party, independently operated distribution facilities, one in South River, New Jersey, and the other in Ontario, California. These distribution centers manage, collectively, the receipt, storage, sortation, packaging and distribution of virtually all of our merchandise. In addition, we also utilize a third distribution center, located in Canada, which is independently owned and operated. 13 Table of Contents These third parties employ personnel represented by labor unions. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of our relationships with these third party providers, there can be no assurance that work stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. We also use separate third party transportation companies to deliver our merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. Any failure by any of these third parties to respond adequately to our warehousing, distribution and transportation needs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a third party to manage the warehousing and order fulfillment for our E-Commerce business; any disruption of these activities could have a material adverse effect on this business. We rely on one third party, GSI Commerce, to host our e-commerce website, warehouse all of the inventory sold through our e-commerce website, and fulfill all of our e-commerce sales to our customers. Any significant interruption in the operations of GSI Commerce, over which we have no control, could have a material adverse effect on our e-commerce business. Failure to protect our trademarks adequately could negatively impact our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets. We believe that our key trademarks AÉROPOSTALE®, AERO® 87® and P.S. FROM AÉROPOSTALE™ and variations thereof, are integral to our logo-driven design strategy. We have obtained federal registrations of or have pending applications for these trademarks in the United States and have applied for or obtained registrations in most foreign countries in which our vendors are located, as well as elsewhere. We use these trademarks in many constantly changing designs and logos even though we have not applied t o register every variation or combination thereof for adult clothing and related accessories. There can be no assurance that the registrations we own and have obtained will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If any third party imitates our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. Other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for apparel and accessories in foreign countries in which our vendors are located. There may also be other prior registrations in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. Accordingly, it may not be possible, in those few foreign countries where we were not able to register our marks, to enjoin the manufacture, sale or exportation of AÉROPOSTALE or P.S. FROM AÉROPOSTALE branded goods to the United States. If we were unable to reach a licensing arrangement with these parties, our vendors may be unable to manufacture our products in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from or manufacture in less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those jurisdictions outside the United States. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism has disrupted commerce and has intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and/or mall traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other unforeseen interruption of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from foreign vendors. Inability to obtain merchandise from our foreign vendors or substitute other vendors, at similar costs and in a timely manner, would adversely affect our operating results and financial con dition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 