D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our American Depository Shares or ADSs. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our shares and ADSs. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operation. 7 Risks Relating to Our Industry The product tanker and drybulk vessel sectors are cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, in vessel values and in results of operations The product tanker and drybulk vessel sectors are cyclical with volatility in charter rates and industry profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of product tankers and drybulk vessels has varied widely. For example, tanker charter rates have declined from historical highs reached in mid-2008, and the decline in charter rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk vessels has been even more pronounced, reaching near historically low levels in 2009 after reaching historical highs in mid-2008. If we enter into charters when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet ou r obligations or pay dividends. The factors affecting the supply and demand for product tankers and drybulk vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for seaborne transportation of cargo include: · demand for and production of crude oil, refined petroleum products and drybulk products; · the distance cargo is to be moved by sea; · changes in oil production and refining capacity; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargo is transported due to geographic changes in where commodities are produced, oil is refined and cargoes are used; and · weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the vessel casualties; · the price of steel; · number of vessels that are out of service; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and · port or canal congestion. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the world's drybulk vessel and product tanker fleets, and the sources and supply of cargo to be transported by sea. If the global vessel capacity increases in the shipping sectors in which we operate, but the demand for vessel capacity in these sectors does not increase or increases at a slower rate, the charter rates paid for our vessels could materially decline. Given the large number of new vessels currently on order with shipyards, the capacity of the global fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not resume in areas th at have experienced a recession or continue in other areas. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 8 The downturns in the tanker and drybulk vessel charter markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends In response to a significant decline in oil prices during 2008, OPEC significantly reduced oil supply, contributing to a recovery, from a low in December 2008 to higher levels as of February 2010, in the price of West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, which is used as an industry benchmark for crude oil prices. During the last OPEC meeting, the ministers agreed to leave existing output targets unchanged in order to help economic recovery by avoiding further increases of oil prices during the economic recession. The decline in oil supply had an adverse effect on the demand for tankers and tanker charter rates. The tanker industry has an inherent volatility caused by seasonal demand fluctuations. During the fall, refineries typically build stockpiles to cover demand for heating distillates during the winter. Early in the spring the refineries move into a maintenance period in order to switch production to gasoline instead of heavy distillates. This results in the reduction of required seaborne transportation of oil. As a general pattern, demand for petroleum products during the summer months in the Northern Hemisphere is less than demand in the winter months. The Baltic Dry Index (BDI), a daily average of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis covering Supramax, Panamax and Capesize drybulk vessels, recovered significantly in 2009 compared to the low of the fourth quarter of 2008. The 2009 average of the BDI was about 300% higher than the December 2008 average. However, this is still below the BDI's high reached in May 2008. Charter rates were severely affected in 2008 in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates wil l remain at their current levels or whether they will experience significant volatility. If these trends continue, in order to remain viable, we may not be able to resume dividend payments and we may have to sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets or assume additional indebtedness. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings The fair market value of vessels may increase and decrease depending on, but not limited to, the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · shipyard capacity; · governmental or other regulations; 9 · age of vessels; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. If we sell any of our tankers or drybulk vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we shall incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. An over-supply of tanker and drybulk vessel capacity may lead to reductions in charter rates and profitability The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, waiting days in ports, as well as strong overall economic growth in parts of the world economy. Factors increasing demand, and therefore tending to increase tanker supply, include the extension of refinery capacity in India and the Middle East up to 2011, exceeding the immediate consumption in these areas, which is expected to increase exports of refined oil products. Factors that tend to decrease tanker supply include the phasing out of single-hull tankers due to legislation and environmental concerns and, to a lesser extent, the conversion of tankers to non-tanker purposes. The market supply of drybulk vessels has been increasing, with newbuildings delivered in significant numbers st arting at the beginning of 2006 and continuing through 2010. The number of drybulk vessels on order is currently near historic highs. We believe shipyards are expected to operate more or less at full capacity with their present orderbooks for both tankers and drybulk vessels. An over-supply of tanker or drybulk vessel capacity may result in a reduction of charter rates. If a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters, we may only be able to recharter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Our operating results from our fleet are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results in a given financial period We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, we expect our dry bulk revenues to be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, we expect our revenues to be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities can adversely affect our business Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004, and in London on July 7, 2005, and the attacks in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additiona l financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Future terrorist attacks are unpredictable and could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 10 Our vessels may be damaged due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs , would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline The United States and other parts of the world are exhibiting deteriorating economic trends and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets worldwide and in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government, state governments and foreign governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. During 2008 and 2009, a number of financial institutions in the United States and other parts of the world have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2009, we have total outstanding indebtedness of $1,781 million under our credit facilities. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, including proposals to reform the financial system, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 11 Tanker and drybulk vessel operations involve certain unique operational risks including environmental damage and damage to the vessels The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil and related oil products. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. The operation of drybulk vessels has certain unique operational risks. With a drybulk vessel, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk vessels are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk vessel. Drybulk vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk vessels may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk vessel suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buc kle the drybulk vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of the drybulk vessel. We take out full P&I cover with P&I clubs within the International Group (IG). The P&I cover taken out for drybulk vessels covers the vessel owner's liabilities towards the owner of any damaged cargo, subject to the usual international conventions limiting such liability. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels, we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. As of the date of this document, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd's Register of Shipping or Det Norske Veritas, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. 12 If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. However, it is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. A further economic downturn in any of these countries could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken; with the result that prices for cert ain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 13 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to: · the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA; · the U.S Clean Air Act; · the U.S. Clean Water Act; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended by the Protocol of 1992; · the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships; · the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973; · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966; · the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002; · European Union regulations, which phase out single-hulled tankers in the case of all tankers flying the flag of a member state or entering or leaving EU ports; · the International Ship and Port Facilities Securities Code, which became effective in 2004; and · the International Code for the Construction and Equipment of Ships Carrying Liquefied Gases in Bulk. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. In addition, the recent oi l spill in the Gulf of Mexico may also result in additional regulatory initiatives or statutes that may affect our operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with such regulatory initiatives or statues. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 14 Recent changes in environmental and other governmental requirements may adversely affect our operations In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency finalized new nitrogen oxide emissions control standards and reduced sulfur content fuel standards applicable to newly built large marine (''Category 3'') engines, which are applicable to certain of our newer vessels. Category 3 engines are diesel engines that typically range in size from 3,000 to 100,000 horsepower, and are used for propulsion power on certain vessels such as container ships, oil tankers, bulk carriers, and cruise ships. As of July 1, 2009, the State of California requires that both U.S. and foreign flagged vessels, subject to specified exceptions, use reduced sulfur content fuel of 1.5% for marine gas oil or 0.5% diesel oil when operating within 24 nautical miles of California's coastline. As of January 1, 2012, these limits will both d rop to 0.1% sulfur content. In addition, as of January 1, 2010, the EU introduced a 0.1% maximum sulfur requirement for fuels used by ships at berth in EU ports. Although we are taking steps to ensure our vessels comply with these air emission regulations, enforcement of these industry-wide regulations by the U.S. Coast Guard, EPA or EU authorities and appropriate compliance measures could result in material operational restrictions in the use of our vessels, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. For example, in November 2008, the M/V Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. In addition, in April 2010, our vessel MV TORM Ragnhild was subject to an attempted piracy attack in the Gulf of Aden, but this wa s successfully thwarted by multi-national forces. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking, involving the hostile detention of a vessel, as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations A number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with such measures could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Risks Relating to Our Business Servicing our debt limits funds available for other purposes and, if we cannot service our debt, we may lose some or all of our vessels, restricting our ability to conduct our business We must dedicate a large part of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Our debt level of approximately USD 1,804,332,000, as of December 31, 2009, also makes us vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. If we expand our fleet beyond vessels already financed, we will need to take on additional debt, which would increase our ratio of debt to equity. Our inability to service debt could also lead to acceleration of our debt and the foreclosure of all or a portion of our fleet, which could have a material adverse impact on our busin ess, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 15 Certain of our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants, which may limit our liquidity and corporate activities and prevent proper service of debt Some loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions upon us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · change the management of our vessels without the lenders' consent (which they are not entitled to unreasonably withhold); and · enter into mergers or corporate restructurings, or effect material divestments, if such would be materially adverse to the company. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow and may decrease our earnings Our loan agreements do not contain any vessel minimum value clauses and our rights and obligations under the loan agreements will not be affected by a decrease of the market values of our vessels. However, should the market values of our vessels decrease, it would limit the amount of new funds available under our available credit facilities and under future loan facilities. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand drybulk vessels are near historically low levels and prices for tanker vessels have dropped dramatically as well. The market value of our vessels fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, prevailing charter rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of constructing newbuildings. The market value of our fleet may decline as a result of a downswing in the historically cyclical shipping industry. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, that may lead to an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements and may ultimately have an adverse effect on our ability to meet certain financial covenants in our loan agreements. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale price may be less than the vessel's carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our financial results. These results could have a material adverse impact on our business, f inancial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels on time charters, in pools or take advantage of the current spot market We employ the majority of our vessels on spot voyage charters or short-term time charters. Our operating results will therefore depend on the prevailing charter rates in a given time period. Charter rates are based in part on supply and demand and are extremely competitive. Significant fluctuations in charter rates will result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. Although we charter out some of our vessels on long-term time charters when we want to lock in favorable charter rates and generate predictable revenue streams, our vessels that are committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upswing in the shipping industry, when spot voyages might be more profitable. We are impacted by any increase or decrease in market rates. If rates were to decrease significan tly, we may not utilize our fleet fully and our earnings could be adversely impacted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. 16 Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations, except when our vessels are under period charter, in which case the charterer pays fuel costs. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Additionally, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may further reduce the profitabi lity and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business We enter into forward freight agreements (FFAs), forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts and employ our vessels on Contracts of Affreightment (COAs), fixed rate time charters and voyage charters. Our FFAs, forward currency exchange contracts, bunker and interest rate hedging contracts, COAs and vessel charters subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer n eed a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if one of our vessels is involved in an accident We procure insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, including environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, and war risk insurance. We carry insurance against loss of hire as well. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions, which although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings We own both vessels constructed for us directly by builders and previously owned, or secondhand, vessels purchased from other owners. While we inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if we buy vessels older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2009, our fleet of owned vessels included six vessels more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine and hull technology. After vessels reach 15 years of age, the majority of charterers and oil companies may impose restrictions on vessels that make it more difficult to trade the vessels with optimal flexibility. In addition, these older vessels must meet certain hull thickness tests. Furthermore, cargo insurance rates increase for vessels over 15 years of age, making them less desirable to charterers. However, vessels of comparable tonnage to those in our fleet are generally estimated to have a useful lifetime of 25 years. 17 Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify such expenditures or enable us to operate them profitably for the remainder of their useful life, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. We may not successfully implement the cost-saving initiative "Greater Efficiency Power" that is presently underway In 2009, we initiated a program named "Greater Efficiency Power" aimed at increasing operating efficiency and reducing vessel operating expenses as well as general administrative expenses. Vessel operating expenses are incurred by our fleet of owned vessels and primarily consist of crew wages and associated costs, insurance premiums, lubricants and spare parts, and repair and maintenance costs. These expenses depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. In addition, the success of the Greater Efficiency Power program in achieving further reductions in general administrative costs will depend on our ability to identify further effic iency improvements in our administrative processes. Failure to realize the anticipated cost-saving benefits of the Greater Efficiency Power program could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Because we generate nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but incur some of our expenses in Danish Kroner and other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations In 2009, we generated nearly all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incurred approximately 83% of our expenses in U.S. dollars, or USD, and approximately 14% in Danish Kroner, or DKK. A change in exchange rates could lead to fluctuations in our reported financial results, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Interest rate fluctuations, including the recent volatility in LIBOR, may significantly affect our loan payments, which could adversely affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow As of December 31, 2009, 92% of our loans bore interest at floating rates. Increases in prevailing rates could increase the amounts that we would have to pay to our lenders. LIBOR has decreased significantly during the year as a result of the financial crisis and the continued low interest environment. Because the interest rates borne by much of our outstanding indebtedness fluctuates with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, we had entered into interest swap agreements expiring between 2010 and 2013 for approximately 34% of the then outstanding principal amounts of our loans, that may mitigate some of our exposure to the risk of rising interest rates. However, increases in interest rates will increase our payments under loans not covered by caps of the interest rates of our loans and swap agreements and may negatively affect our earnings and cash flow, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel and commencing foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay a substantial sum of money to have the arrest lifted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. None of our vessels have been arrested by a maritime lien holder. 18 In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends. None of our vessels have been requisitioned by a government for title or hire. Because we are a non-U.S. corporation, you may not have the same rights that a creditor of a U.S. corporation may have and it may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against our officers, our directors and us We are a Danish company and our executive offices are located outside of the United States. Our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this document reside outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets and the assets of our officers, directors and experts are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or enforcing any judgments obtained in U.S. courts to the extent assets located in the United States are insufficient to satisfy the judgments. In addition, original actions or actions for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts with respect to civil liabilities solely under the federal securities laws of the United States are not enforceable in Denmark. See "Information about th e Enforceability of Judgments and the Effect of Foreign Law." There may be no active public market for you to resell our ADSs The price of our ADSs may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the industry; · changes in government regulation; · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. Historically, the shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for ADSs in the shipping industry may be equally volatile. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange is smaller and less liquid than the major securities exchanges or markets in the United States. The trading volume of our shares on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange has been volatile. It may be hard to predict future trading levels or volatility. Consequently, you may not be able to sell ADSs at the time and at the price you desire. 19 Holders of ADSs may experience delays in receiving information and materials not experienced by our common shareholders The ADSs are securities that have been issued by a depository with whom we have deposited our common shares. The depository is responsible for distributing notices and voting materials to holders of the ADSs. If there is any delay in such distributions on the part of the depository, you may not receive such dividends or materials concurrently with holders of our common shares in Denmark, and may not receive such materials in time for you to instruct the depository to vote. You may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive when the dividend was approved Under Danish law, the board of directors proposes dividends and the shareholders vote whether to accept the proposal or to lower the dividend. We will pay any dividends in Danish Kroner to our depository agent for the ADSs, and our depository agent will convert the amounts into U.S. dollars at the relevant exchange rate and distribute the dividend to you. If the Danish Kroner depreciates against the U.S. dollar before our depository agent distributes the dividend, you may receive a smaller dividend than what you expected to receive at the time the dividend was approved by shareholders. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code or under the terms of a tax-treaty with the United States. We expect that our Danish subsidiaries will qualify for tax exemption under the tax treaty between the United States and Denmark. However, our non-Danish subsidiaries may not qualify for exemption under Section 883 for the 2009 taxable year unless we are able to obtain certain certifications from our shareholders. As of the date of this filing, we have not been able to obtain these certifications, although we intend to continue our efforts. If we are unable to obtain these certifications, our non-Danish subsidiaries would be subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income derived during our 2009 taxable year. We can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ''passive income'' or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ''passive income.'' For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ''passive income.'' U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. 20 There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any f uture taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our ADSs, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our ADSs. 