ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors before you decide to invest in our Company and our business because these risk factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations We do not have significant operating revenue and we may never have sufficient revenue to be profitable. Our ability to achieve significant revenue or profitability depends upon our ability to successfully commercialize existing products, particularly Altrazeal®. Historically, none of our existing products have had significant sales and all of our products compete in a competitive marketplace. We may not generate significant revenues or profits from the sale of Altrazeal® or other products in the future. If we are unable to generate significant revenues over the long term, we will not be profitable and may need to discontinue our operations. A failure to obtain additional capital if needed could jeopardize our operations, and the raising of additional capital may be dilutive or incurring additional indebtedness may create default risks. We believe existing and contemplated arrangements for additional capital or debt should provide us with adequate financial resources to continue to fund our business plan and meet our operating requirements through 2013 and beyond. If we have unanticipated costs, our revenues are less than expected, or existing commitments do not yield anticipated capital, we may need to obtain additional capital earlier than anticipated. In any case, absence a significant increase in revenue, we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations over the longer term. As we go to market to raise capital, we may be unable to obtain necessary financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we would be unable to continue our operations. Even if we are able to raise capital, we may raise capital by selling equity securities, which will be dilutive to existing shareholders. If we incur additional indebtedness, costs of financing may be extremely high, and we will be subject to default risks associated with such indebtedness, which may harm our ability to continue our operations. Our financial condition limits our ability to borrow funds or to raise additional equity as may be required to fund our future operations. We rely on capital from loan and the sale of equity securities to fund our operations due to our limited revenue. Our ability to borrow funds or raise additional equity is be limited by our financial condition. If we do not experience a significant increase in revenue, and are unable to raise additional capital, we may be required to discontinue operations. - 16 - Table of Contents Sales of our products is dependent upon the efforts of commercial partners and other third parties over which we have no or little control. The right to market and sale our key products has been licensed to third parties and to entities in which we have minority equity stakes. This presents certain risks, including the following: § our commercial partners and licensees may not place the same priority on sales of a product as we do, may fail to honor contractual commitments, may not have the expertise, market strength or other characteristics necessary to effectively market our products, may dedicate only limited resources to, and/or may abandon, marketing of a product for reasons, including reasons such as a shift in corporate focus, unrelated to its merits; § our commercial partners may be in the early stages of development and may not have sufficient liquidity to effectively obtain approvals for and market our product consistent with contractual commitments or our expectations; § we may have disputes with our commercial partners, which may inhibit development, lead to an abandonment of our arrangements or have other negative consequences; and § even if the commercialization and marketing of products is successful, our revenue share may be limited and may not exceed our associated development and operating costs. If any of these risks our realized, our revenues are unlikely to be sufficient to support our operations over the long terms, and we may have to discontinue operations. We may not successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of pharmaceuticals based on new technologies and our failure to develop safe, commercially viable products would severely limit our ability to become profitable or to achieve significant revenues. We may be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates because: § some or all of our product candidates may be found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to meet applicable regulatory standards or receive necessary regulatory clearances; § our product candidates, if safe and effective, may be too difficult to develop into commercially viable products; § it may be difficult to manufacture or market our product candidates in a large scale; § proprietary rights of third parties may preclude us from marketing our product candidates; and § third parties may market superior or equivalent products. If we are unable to maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will be unable to successfully commercialize Altrazeal®. If we are unable to establish the capabilities to sell, market and distribute Altrazeal® by entering into agreements with others, or to maintain such capabilities in countries where we have already commenced commercial sales, we will not be able to successfully sell Altrazeal®. In that event, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we enter into marketing and distribution agreements with third parties on acceptable terms, we may not do so in an efficient manner or on a timely basis. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing Altrazeal®. - 17 - Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully develop, market, or commercialize our products or our product candidates without establishing new relationships and maintaining current relationships. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of our potential pharmaceutical products may require us to enter into various arrangements with corporate and collaborators, licensees and others, in addition to our existing relationships with other parties. Specifically, we need to joint venture, sublicense or enter other marketing arrangements with parties that have an established marketing capability. Furthermore, if we maintain and establish arrangements or relationships with third parties, our business will depend upon the successful performance by these third parties of their responsibilities under those arrangements and relationships. Our ability to successfully commercialize, and market our products and product candidates could be limited if a number of our existing relationships were terminated. We may be unable to successfully manufacture our products and our product candidates in commercial quantities without the assistance of contract manufacturers, which may be difficult for us to obtain and maintain. We have limited experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products in commercial quantities and we may not be able to manufacture any new pharmaceutical products that we may develop. As a result, we have established, and in the future intend to establish, arrangements with contract manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of products for the manufacture, packaging, labeling, and distribution of finished pharmaceutical products. Our business could suffer if there are delays or difficulties in establishing relationships with manufacturers to produce, package, label and distribute our finished pharmaceutical or other medical products, if any, and the market introduction and subsequent sales of such products. Moreover, contract manufacturers that we may use must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices, as required by FDA. In this regard, the FDA will not issue a pre-market approval or product and establishment licenses, where applicable, to a manufacturing facility for the products until the manufacturing facility passes a pre-approval plant inspection. If we are unable to obtain or retain third party manufacturing on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may harm our ability to generate significant revenues or acceptable profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. We may incur substantial product liability expenses due to the use or misuse of our products. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial liability for damages if adverse side effects or product defects are identified with any of our products. We may be unable to satisfy any claims for which we may be held liable as a result of the use or misuse of products which we have developed, manufactured or sold. Any such product liability could harm our operations, and a large judgment could force us to discontinue our operations. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental regulations. Our development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of such material and certain waste products. If we experience an accident with hazardous materials or otherwise mishandle them, we could be held liable for any damages. Any such liability could exceed our resources and force us to discontinue operations. Additional federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future, including laws related to climate change. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these laws or regulations. Additionally, we may incur substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. - 18 - Table of Contents Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our drug or device candidates will substantially depend upon the availability of reimbursement funds for the costs of the resulting drugs or devices and related treatments. The successful commercialization of, and the interest of potential collaborative partners to invest in the commercialization of our drug or device candidates, may depend substantially upon the reimbursement at acceptable levels of the costs of the resulting drugs or devices and related treatments from government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, including health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. To date, the costs of our marketed products Altrazeal® and Aphthasol® generally have been reimbursed at acceptable levels; however, the amount of such reimbursement in the United States or elsewhere may be decreased in the future or may be unavailable for any drugs or devices that we may develop in the future. Limited reimbursement for the cost of any drugs or devices that we develop may reduce the demand for, or price of such drugs or devices, which would hamper our ability to obtain collaborative partners to commercialize our drugs or devices, or to obtain a sufficient financial return on our own manufacture and commercialization of any future drugs or devices. Intense competition may limit our ability to successfully develop and market commercial products. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors in the United States and elsewhere are numerous and include, among others, major multinational pharmaceutical, device, and chemical companies. In the area of wound management and burn care, which is the primary focus of our commercialization and development activities, a number of companies are developing or evaluating new technology approaches. Significantly larger companies compete in this marketplace including Smith & Nephew plc, Kinetic Concepts, Inc., ConvaTec Inc., Systagenix Wound Management Limited, 3M Company, Molnlycke Health Care, and numerous other companies. We expect that technological developments will occur at a rapid rate and that competition is likely to intensify as various alternative technologies achieve similar if not identical advantages. Prescription steroids such as Kenalog in OraBase, developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb, may compete with our commercialized Aphthasol® product. OTC products including Orajel (Church and Dwight) and Anbesol (Pfizer Consumer Healthcare) also compete in the aphthous ulcer market. These competitors have and employ greater financial and other resources, including larger research and development, marketing and manufacturing organizations. As a result, our competitors may successfully develop technologies and drugs that are more effective or less costly than any that we are developing or which would render our technology and future products obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, some of our competitors have greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical and clinical trials and may obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for product candidates more rapidly than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. Products resulting from our development efforts or from our joint efforts with collaborative partners therefore may not be commercially competitive with our competitors’ existing products or products under development. - 19 - Table of Contents The market may not accept any pharmaceutical products that we successfully develop. The drugs and devices that we are attempting to develop may compete with a number of well-established drugs and devices manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any drugs or devices developed by us will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of our drug candidates, the potential advantage of our drug candidates over existing therapies and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers, and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and those of our partners. Physicians, patients or the medical community in general may not accept or use any drugs or devices that we may develop independently or with our collaborative partners and if they do not, our business could suffer. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350-30, Intangibles Other than Goodwill requires that we test goodwill and other intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for impairment on an annual, or on an interim basis if certain events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value or if the fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives falls below their carrying value. In addition, under ASC Topic 350-30, long-lived assets with finite lives are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant decrease in the fair value of a long-lived asset, an adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition or an expectation that a long-lived asset will be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life are among several of the factors that could result in an impairment charge. We evaluate intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sales or disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other factors such as a decline in our market value below our book value for an extended period of time. We evaluate the estimated lives of all intangible assets on an annual basis, to determine if events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life or the remaining useful life, as applicable, or if a revision in the remaining period of amortization is required. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our operating results could be harmed. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to financial preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate and improve our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. - 20 - Table of Contents Trends toward managed health care and downward price pressure on medical products and services may limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs or devices that we develop. Lower prices for pharmaceutical products may result from: § Third-party payers’ increasing challenges to the prices charged for medical products and services; § The trend toward managed health care in the Unites States and the concurrent growth of HMOs and similar organizations that can control or significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products; and § Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce government insurance programs. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, including practice protocols and guidelines and clinical pathways, and the effect of any healthcare reform, could limit our ability to profitably sell any drugs or devices that we may successfully develop. Moreover, any future legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement, may cause our business to suffer. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and scientific team. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could delay or prevent the achievement of our development or product commercialization objectives. While we have employment agreements with our senior management, their employment may be terminated at any time. We do not maintain any "key-man" insurance policies on any of our senior management and we do not intend to obtain such insurance. In addition, due to the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. There is intense competition among major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms and universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities and we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personally identifiable information, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. We have also outsourced elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable both to service interruptions and to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions. We may be susceptible to third-party attacks on our information security systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. Service interruptions or security breaches could result in significant financial, legal, business or reputational harm. Our current strategy focuses on certain international markets, particularly those in Europe, which are experiencing a recession or slow financial growth. In recent years, our strategy has been to focus on international markets where we believe our products may be better received. This includes markets in Europe and other parts of the world that remain in, or have slid back into, recession and are harmed by the continuing European sovereign debt crisis. Continuing worldwide economic instability, including challenges faced by the Eurozone and certain of the countries in Europe, may lead to slower than expected revenue growth and collection issues as potential customers, or payors, continue to be harmed by slow economic growth. - 21 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval We are subject to extensive governmental regulation which increases our cost of doing business and may affect our ability to commercialize any new products that we may develop. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the introduction of pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory, preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures to establish their safety and efficacy. Some of our products and product candidates require receipt and maintenance of governmental approvals for commercialization. Preclinical and clinical trials and manufacturing of our product candidates will be subject to the rigorous testing and approval processes of the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a significant number of years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product. We may be unable to obtain government approvals required to market our products and, even if we do, that approval may subsequently be withdrawn or limited. Government regulation affects the manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical and medical device products. Government regulations may delay marketing of our potential drugs or potential medical devices for a considerable or indefinite period of time, impose costly procedural requirements upon our activities and furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies or companies more experienced in regulatory affairs. Delays in obtaining governmental regulatory approval could adversely affect our marketing as well as our ability to generate significant revenues from commercial sales. Our drug or device candidates may not receive FDA or other regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug or device candidate is granted, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated use for which such drug or device may be marketed. Even if we obtain initial regulatory approvals for our drug or device candidates, our drugs or devices and our manufacturing facilities would be subject to continual review and periodic inspection, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, or device, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the marketing or manufacture of such drug or device, including withdrawal of the drug or device from the market. The FDA and other regulatory authorities stringently apply regulatory standards, and failure to comply with regulatory standards can, among other things, result in fines, denial or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The uncertainty associated with preclinical and clinical testing may affect our ability to successfully commercialize new products. Before we can obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our potential products, the product candidates may be subject to extensive preclinical and clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. In this regard, for example, adverse side effects can occur during the clinical testing of a new drug on humans which may delay ultimate FDA approval or even lead us to terminate our efforts to develop the product for commercial use. Companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after demonstrating promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate under development could delay or prevent regulatory approval of the product candidate. A delay or failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from successfully commercializing such candidates, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in our attempts to further develop such candidates and obtain future regulatory approval. - 22 - Table of Contents Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents or contractors or collaborators could adversely affect our business or reputation. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, environmental, competition, and privacy laws. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and injunctive penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations, and reputation. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as shareholder approval of executive compensation (so-called “say on pay”) and proxy access. On January 25, 2011, the SEC adopted final rules concerning “say on pay”. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. We also may incur liability if we fail to comply with such laws. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain U.S. and foreign patent protection for our drug and device candidates and processes, preserve our trade secrets and operate our business without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under such patents are still developing. We cannot assure you that any existing or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not subsequently be challenged, infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. As a result, although we, together with our subsidiaries, are the owner of U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications now pending, and European patents and European patent applications, we cannot assure you that any additional patents will issue from any of the patent applications owned by us. Furthermore, any rights that we may have under issued patents may not provide us with significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially viable. In addition, patents may have been granted to third parties or may be granted covering products or processes that are necessary or useful to the development of our product candidates. If our product candidates or processes are found to infringe upon the patents or otherwise impermissibly utilize the intellectual property of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such product candidates could be severely restricted or prohibited. In such event, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties to utilize the patents or proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we become involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, the potential cost of such litigation, regardless of the strength of our legal position, and the potential damages that we could be required to pay could be substantial and harm our ability to continue as a going concern. - 23 - Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock An investment in our common stock may be less attractive because it is not listed on a national stock exchange. On April 2, 2012, we began quotation and trading on the OTCQB™ marketplace (the “OTCQB”), operated by the OTC Markets Group. The OTCQB is a market tier for over-the-counter-traded companies that are registered and reporting with the SEC. The OTCQB and Pink Sheets are viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. Our common stock is a “low-priced stock” and subject to regulations that limits or restricts the potential market for our stock. Shares of our common stock are “low-priced” or “penny stock,” resulting in increased risks to our investors and certain requirements being imposed on some brokers who execute transactions in our common stock. In general, a low-priced stock is an equity security that: § Is priced under five dollars; § Is not traded on a national stock exchange, such as NASDAQ or the NYSE; § Is issued by a company that has less than $5 million in net tangible assets (if it has been in business less than three years) or has less than $2 million in net tangible assets (if it has been in business for at least three years); and § Is issued by a company that has average revenues of less than $6 million for the past three years. We believe that our common stock is presently a “penny stock.” At any time the common stock qualifies as a penny stock, the following requirements, among others, will generally apply: § Certain broker-dealers who recommend penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. § Prior to executing any transaction involving a penny stock, certain broker-dealers must deliver to certain purchasers a disclosure schedule explaining the risks involved in owning penny stock, the broker-dealer’s duties to the customer, a toll-free telephone number for inquiries about the broker-dealer’s disciplinary history and the customer’s rights and remedies in case of fraud or abuse in the sale. § In connection with the execution of any transaction involving a penny stock, certain broker-dealers must deliver to certain purchasers the following: · bid and offer price quotes and volume information; · the broker-dealer’s compensation for the trade; · the compensation received by certain salespersons for the trade; · monthly accounts statements; and · a written statement of the customer’s financial situation and investment goals. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you will have to rely on appreciation in the price of our common stock, if any, to earn a return on your investment in our common stock. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. - 24 - Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents could discourage an acquisition of our Company that would benefit our stockholders and may have the effect of entrenching, and making it difficult to remove, management. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon such terms and conditions, and having such rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine, including for example, rights to convert into our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and the likelihood of an acquisition. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock. Our charter allows us to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our common stock and to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 20,000 shares of preferred stock. In the event we issue additional shares of our capital stock, dilution to our stockholders could result. In addition, if we issue and designate a class of preferred stock, these securities may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock could lower our stock price. Trading in our common stock is limited, and daily trading volumes are low. As a result, the market price for our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares of common stock or shares that we may issue or be obligated to issue in the future. Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock and cause stockholders to experience dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued upon conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and our three Secured Convertible Subordinated Notes. We may issue additional shares of common stock through one or more equity transactions in the future to satisfy our capital and operating needs; however, such transactions will be subject to market conditions and will likely include sales at a discount from our market prices. Sales of equity securities by a company at a discount from market price are often associated with a decrease in the market price of the common stock and will dilute the percentage interest owned by existing shareholders. - 25 - Table of Contents We have issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with rights and preferences superior to those of our common stock. The issued and outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock grants the holders of such preferred stock dividend and liquidations rights that are superior to those held by the holders of our common stock. We granted a security interest in all of our assets in connection with our recent convertible debt financing in June 2012 In connection with our issuance of a $2,210,000 promissory note in favor of Inter-Mountain in June 2012 (the “June 2012 Note”), we entered into a Security Agreement to secure obligations of the Company under the June 2012 Note in favor of Inter-Mountain. If we default under the June 2012 Note, the holders will be entitled to foreclose on all of our assets pursuant to the Security Agreement. Our financing with Inter-Mountain will be dilutive to existing shareholders, and may be increasingly dilutive under certain circumstances. Pursuant to the terms of June 12 Note, at our option, subject to certain volume, price, and other conditions, the monthly installment payments on the June 2012 Note may be paid in whole, or in part, in cash or in our common stock. If the monthly installment is paid in common stock, such shares being issued will be based on a price that is 80% of the average of the three lowest days volume weighted average prices of the shares of common stock during the preceding twenty trading days. The percentage declines to 70% if the average of the three lowest days volume weighted average prices of the shares of common stock during the preceding twenty trading days is less than $0.05. Any election we make to pay monthly installments will be dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, at the option of Inter-Mountain, the outstanding principal balance of the June 2012 Note may be converted into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $0.35 per share. If we sell, or are deemed to have sold, common stock below $0.35 per share in the future, the conversion price will be reduced to the price at which we sell, or are deemed to have sold common stock. As of February 28, 2013, the amount that may be converted is $1,210,000, and as Inter-Mountain pays down certain promissory notes in our favor, up to four subsequent tranches of $250,000, plus interest, may be eligible for conversion. Inter-Mountain also received a total of seven warrants to purchase, if they all vest, an aggregate of 3,142,857 shares of common stock, which number of shares could increase based upon the terms and conditions of the Warrants. The Warrants have an exercise price of $0.35 per share, subject to certain pricing adjustments, and are exercisable, subject to vesting provisions and ownership limitations, until June 27, 2017. Warrants for 785,714 shares of common stock, 392,857 shares of common stock, and 392,857 shares of common stock vested on June 27, 2012, December 31, 2012, and February 26, 2013, respectively. Each of the other four Warrants vest upon the payment by the holder of each of the remaining four notes issued by Inter-Mountain in our favor. Any issuance upon conversion of the June 2012 Note, or the exercise of the related warrants, will be dilutive to existing shareholders. - 26 - Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 