Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.Investing in our securities involves a significant degree of risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should consider the following factors before investing in our securities.Our substantial lease and debt obligations could impair our financial condition.We have substantial lease and debt obligations. For fiscal 2012, our total rent expense and net interest expense were approximately $384.4 million and $135.0 million, respectively. As of December 27, 2012, we had total debt obligations of $1,995.2 million. As of December 27, 2012, we had total contractual cash obligations of approximately $6,083.8 million, which excludes the $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 53/4% Senior Notes issued on January 17, 2013. For a detailed discussion of our contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments over the next several years, refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Cash Obligations and Commitments" provided in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.If we are unable to meet our lease and debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations and seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our obligations and obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, inability to meet our lease and debt service obligations could cause us to default on those obligations. Many of our lease agreements and the agreements governing the terms of our debt obligations contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to take specific actions (including paying dividends to our stockholders) or require us not to allow specific events to occur and prescribe minimum financial maintenance requirements that we must meet. If we violate those restrictive covenants or fail to meet the minimum financial requirements contained in a lease or debt instrument, we could be in default under that instrument, which could, in turn, result in defaults under other leases and debt instruments. Any such defaults could materially impair our financial condition and liquidity.We depend on motion picture production and performance and our relationships with film distributors.Our ability to operate successfully depends upon the availability, diversity and commercial appeal of motion pictures, our ability to license motion pictures and the performance of such motion pictures in our markets. We license first-run motion pictures, the success of which has increasingly depended on the marketing efforts of the major motion picture studios. Poor 14Table of Contentsperformance of, or any disruption in the production of, these motion pictures (including by reason of a strike or lack of adequate financing), or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the major motion picture studios, could hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, a change in the type and breadth of movies offered by motion picture studios may adversely affect the demographic base of moviegoers.The distribution of motion pictures is in large part regulated by federal and state antitrust laws and has been the subject of numerous antitrust cases. Consent decrees resulting from those cases effectively require major motion picture distributors to offer and license films to exhibitors, including us, on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis. Consequently, we cannot assure ourselves of a supply of motion pictures by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors, but must compete for our licenses on a film-by-film and theatre-by-theatre basis. In addition, the film distribution business is highly concentrated, with ten major film distributors accounting for approximately 94% of our admissions revenues during fiscal 2012. Our business depends on maintaining good relations with these distributors. We are dependent on our ability to negotiate commercially favorable licensing terms for first-run films. A deterioration in our relationship with any of the ten major film distributors could affect our ability to negotiate film licenses on favorable terms or our ability to obtain commercially successful films and, therefore, could hurt our business and results of operations.An increase in the use of alternative film delivery methods may drive down movie theatre attendance and reduce ticket prices.We compete with other movie delivery vehicles, including cable television, downloads via the Internet, in-home video and DVD, satellite and pay-per-view services such as video on demand. When motion picture distributors license their products to the domestic exhibition industry, they refrain from licensing their motion pictures to these other delivery vehicles during the theatrical release window. The theatrical release window has decreased from approximately six months to three to four months over the last decade. Further, some film studios have experimented with offering consumers a premium video-on-demand option for certain films approximately two months after their theatrical launch. We believe that a material contraction of the current theatrical release window could significantly dilute the consumer appeal of the in-theatre motion picture offering, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our theatres operate in a competitive environment.The motion picture exhibition industry is fragmented and highly competitive with no significant barriers to entry. Theatres operated by national and regional circuits and by small independent exhibitors compete with our theatres, particularly with respect to film licensing, attracting patrons and developing new theatre sites. Moviegoers are generally not brand conscious and usually choose a theatre based on its location, the films showing there and its amenities.Generally, stadium seating found in modern megaplex theatres is preferred by patrons over slope-floored multiplex theatres, which were the predominant theatre-type built prior to 1996. Although, as of December 27, 2012, approximately 84% of our screens were located in theatres featuring stadium seating, we still serve many markets with sloped-floored multiplex theatres. These theatres may be more vulnerable to competition than our modern megaplex theatres, and should other theatre operators choose to build and operate modern megaplex theatres in these markets, the performance of our theatres in these markets may be significantly and negatively impacted. In addition, should other theatre operators return to the aggressive building strategies undertaken in the late 1990's, our attendance, revenue and income from operations per screen could decline substantially.We may not benefit from our strategic acquisition strategy and partnerships.We may have difficulty identifying suitable acquisition candidates and partnership opportunities. In the case of acquisitions, even if we identify suitable candidates, we anticipate significant competition from other motion picture exhibitors and financial buyers when trying to acquire these candidates, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to acquire such candidates at reasonable prices or on favorable terms. Moreover, some of these possible buyers may be stronger financially than we are. As a result of this competition for limited assets, we may not succeed in acquiring suitable candidates or may have to pay more than we would prefer to make an acquisition. If we cannot identify or successfully acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may not be able to successfully expand our operations and the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. In any acquisition, we expect to benefit from cost savings through, for example, the reduction of overhead and theatre level costs, and from revenue enhancements resulting from the acquisition. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from these acquisitions to service any indebtedness incurred to finance such acquisitions or realize any other anticipated benefits. Nor can there be any assurance that our profitability will be improved by any one or more acquisitions. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to service debt incurred to finance an acquisition, our results of operations and profitability would be adversely affected. Any acquisition may involve operating risks, such as:•the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel and integrating them into our current business;15Table of Contents•the potential disruption of our ongoing business;•the diversion of management's attention and other resources;•the possible inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;•the risks of entering markets in which we have little or no experience;•the potential impairment of relationships with employees and landlords;•the possibility that any liabilities we may incur or assume may prove to be more burdensome than anticipated; and•the possibility that any acquired theatres or theatre circuit operators do not perform as expected.We also selectively pursue theatre-related investments and partnership opportunities that enhance and more fully leverage our asset base to improve our consolidated operating results and free cash flow. As of December 27, 2012, we owned approximately 19.7% of National CineMedia, and participate in the DCIP and Open Road Films joint ventures. Risks associated with pursuing these investments and opportunities include:•the difficulties and uncertainties associated with identifying investment and partnership opportunities that will successfully enhance and utilize our existing asset base in a manner that contributes to cost savings and revenue enhancement;•our inability to exercise complete voting control over the partnerships and joint ventures in which we participate; and•our partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, exercise their rights in a way that prohibits us from acting in a manner which we would like or they may be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture or similar agreements.Although we have not been materially constrained by our participation in National CineMedia or other joint ventures to date, no assurance can be given that the actions or decisions of other stakeholders in these ventures will not affect our investments in National CineMedia, DCIP, Open Road Films or other future ventures in a way that hinders our corporate objectives or reduces any anticipated improvements to our operating results and free cash flow.In addition, any acquisitions or partnership opportunities are subject to the risk that the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice or foreign competition authorities may require us to dispose of existing or acquired theatres in order to complete acquisition and partnership opportunities.Economic, political and social conditions could materially affect our business by reducing consumer spending on movie attendance or could have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. We depend on consumers voluntarily spending discretionary funds on leisure activities. We also compete for the public's leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including sporting events, theme parks, concerts, live theatre and restaurants. Motion picture theatre attendance may be affected by negative trends in the general economy that adversely affect consumer spending. A prolonged reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect the demand for motion pictures or severely impact the motion picture production industry, which, in turn, could adversely affect our operations. If economic conditions are weak or deteriorate, or if financial markets experience significant disruption, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. For example, deteriorating conditions in the global credit markets could negatively impact our business partners which may impact film production, the development of new theatres or the enhancement of existing theatres.Theatre attendance may also be affected by political events, such as terrorist attacks on, or wars or threatened wars involving, the United States, health related epidemics and random acts of violence, any one of which could cause people to avoid our theatres or other public places where large crowds are in attendance. In addition, our ability to access capital markets may be restricted at times when the implementation of our business strategy may require us to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. For example, our future ability to borrow on Regal Cinemas' senior credit facility or the effectiveness of our remaining and future interest rate hedging arrangements could be negatively impacted if one or more counterparties files for bankruptcy protection or otherwise fails to perform their obligations thereunder. All of these factors could adversely affect our credit ratings, the market price of our Class A common stock and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our information systems to conduct our business, and failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, our business could be harmed. 16Table of ContentsThe efficient operation of our business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers, cyber terrorists, employee error or misconduct, viruses, power outages and other catastrophic events, leading to unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information and exposing us to litigation that could adversely affect our reputation. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our information systems. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent security breaches. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and could result in decreased performance and increased operating costs, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of our information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on our senior management.Our success depends upon the retention of our senior management, including Amy Miles, our Chief Executive Officer. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find qualified replacements for the individuals who make up our senior management if their services were no longer available. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of any member of senior management could adversely affect our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy.The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with your interests.Anschutz Company owns all of our outstanding Class B common stock. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share while our Class B common stock has ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. As a result, as of December 27, 2012, Anschutz Company controlled approximately 78% of the voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. For as long as Anschutz Company continues to own shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on our common stock. Anschutz Company will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control, and could take other actions that might be desirable to Anschutz Company but not to other stockholders. In addition, Anschutz Company and its affiliates have controlling interests in companies in related and unrelated industries, including interests in the sports, motion picture production and music entertainment industries. In the future, it may combine our company with one or more of its other holdings.Substantial sales of our Class A common stock could cause the market price for our Class A common stock to decline.We cannot predict the effect, if any, that market sales of shares of our Class A common stock or the availability of shares of our Class A common stock for sale will have on the market price of our Class A common stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales will occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline.As of February 18, 2013, we had outstanding 23,708,639 shares of Class B common stock that may convert into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, all of which shares of common stock constitute "restricted securities" under the Securities Act. Provided the holders comply with the applicable volume limits and other conditions prescribed in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, all of these restricted securities are currently freely tradable.Anschutz Company is able to sell their shares pursuant to the registration rights that we have granted. We cannot predict whether substantial amounts of our Class A common stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, any divestiture by Anschutz Company or our directors or executive officers of their shares of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain anti-takeover protections, which may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders.Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as amended, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or make it more difficult to remove incumbent directors or for a third party to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders.Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of our company.Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of 17Table of Contentsshares of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares.Our issuance of preferred stock could dilute the voting power of the common stockholders.The issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our other classes of voting stock either by diluting the voting power of our other classes of voting stock if they vote together as a single class, or by giving the holders of any such preferred stock the right to block an action on which they have a separate class vote even if the action were approved by the holders of our other classes of voting stock.Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the market value of our common stock.The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. For example, investors in the common stock may not wish to purchase common stock at a price above the conversion price of a series of convertible preferred stock because the holders of the preferred stock would effectively be entitled to purchase common stock at the lower conversion price causing economic dilution to the holders of common stock.We are a holding company dependent on our subsidiaries for our ability to service our debt and pay our dividends.We are a holding company with no operations of our own. Consequently, our ability to service our and our subsidiaries' debt and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any distribution of earnings to us from our subsidiaries, or advances or other distributions of funds by these subsidiaries to us, all of which are subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and are subject to various business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of our 91/8% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "91/8% Senior Notes"), our 53/4% Senior Notes due 2025 (the "53/4% Senior Notes") and our common stock to participate in those assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our debt and other financial obligations will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate substantial operating cash flow. This will depend on future performance, which will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our and our subsidiaries' cash flows prove inadequate to meet our and their debt service and other obligations in the future, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our and our subsidiaries' existing or future debt, on or before maturity, to sell assets or to obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness, sell any such assets or obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.