Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our common stock. We are subject to significant governmental regulation, and a failure to correctly identify, interpret, comply with and reconcile the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in substantial liability. Because we are considered to be a consumer reporting agency and we deal primarily in searching and reporting public and non-public consumer information and records, and performing third-party administrative services for employment-related drug screening and other occupational testing, we are subject or vulnerable to extensive and often complex governmental laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, Drivers' Privacy Protection Act, state consumer reporting agency laws, state private investigator licensing regulations, Department of Transportation regulations and various other foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations. Among other things, such laws restrict access to, use and disclosure of certain types of personal information and regulate the protection, storage and disposal of such information. Identifying, interpreting and complying with foreign laws and regulations is particularly difficult due to the broad range of foreign laws and regulations, as well as uncertainties with respect to the applicability and interpretation of such laws and regulations. For example, with respect to our services provided in the European Union and its member countries, although we have qualified for a safe harbor certification available for U.S. companies for the transmission of the personal information that we collect under the jurisdiction of the European Union, uncertainty remains as to the other laws and regulations of the specific member countries which may also apply to our operations in those countries. Failure to comply with these domestic and foreign laws and regulations, to the extent applicable, may harm our reputation and result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and fines, restrictions on our operations, and breach of contract or indemnification claims by our customers and data suppliers. 12 In addition to the challenges of identifying, interpreting and complying with such laws and regulations, and changes to such laws and regulations over time, we face the challenge of reconciling the many potential conflicts between such laws and regulations among the various domestic and international jurisdictions that may be involved in the provision of our services. These challenges may require us to incur additional compliance costs. A failure to correctly identify, interpret, comply with and reconcile the laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in substantial liability and could have a material adverse effect on us. The expansion of our business into areas other than employment screening may require compliance with additional laws and regulations. Evolving or increased regulations, particularly those related to the use of personal information, may lead to additional expense, restrictions and loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to existing laws and regulations relating to our business, interpretations of those laws and regulations or their applicability to us, or the adoption of applicable new laws and regulations could result in additional regulatory compliance requirements or our incurring increasing or substantial regulatory compliance expense, litigation expense or loss of revenue. Such changes could also increase our exposure to potential lawsuits, fines and penalties. For example, certain information and services we provide are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States designed to protect the privacy of the public and to prevent the misuse of personal information in the marketplace. Many consumer advocates, privacy advocates, and government regulators have become increasingly concerned with the use of personal information, particularly social security numbers, department of motor vehicle data and dates of birth, which are extensively used in our search protocols. Since 2001, more than 30 states have enacted new laws to protect personal information or to give consumers more information about how their personal information is used, and lobbying efforts are underway for further restrictions on the dissemination or commercial use of personal information by the public and private sectors. In particular, following publicity surrounding the loss by various high profile public companies of extensive archives of sensitive personal information, and incidents of fraudulent data access through consumer reporting agencies, a number of laws have been enacted or proposed at state and federal levels. Increased regulation in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect or process information or our costs related to collecting and providing information. Any such restriction or additional cost could limit our service offerings, reduce our profitability or otherwise materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, or to do so economically. We could face liability based on the nature of our services and the information we report, which may not be covered or fully covered by insurance. We face potential liability from individuals, classes of individuals, customers or regulatory bodies for claims based on the nature, content or accuracy of our services and the information used and reported by us. This potential liability includes claims of non-compliance with laws and regulations governing our services and claims of defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement. In some cases such liability may be strict liability. The potential for us to be named in lawsuits or government investigations may increase depending in part on our customers' compliance with the FCRA, other state consumer reporting agency regulations and applicable employment laws in their procurement and use of our screening reports, which actions may be outside of our control. From time to time, we have been subject to lawsuits by potential employees of our customers, alleging that we provided to our customers inaccurate or improper information that negatively impacted the customers' hiring decisions. Although the resolutions of these lawsuits have not had a material 13 adverse effect on us to date, such claims could be material in the future, could divert the attention of our management, could subject us to equitable remedies relating to the operation of our business and provision of services and result in significant legal expenses, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance may not be adequate to cover us for all risks to which we are exposed or may not be available to cover these claims at all. For example, punitive damages, which generally are not covered by insurance, is a remedy available under the FCRA to consumers for the failure to comply with the FCRA. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could face liability based on information that we fail to report in our background screening reports, which may not be covered or fully covered by insurance. We may face potential liability from our customers, and possibly damaged third parties, in the event we fail to report information, particularly criminal records or other potentially negative information. For example, should we fail to identify and report an available and reportable criminal felony record which our customer hired us to report, or should we fail to correctly report such information to our customer, then we may face potential liability in the event that the employer hires such applicant, later discovers such record, terminates such employee and is in turn sued by such employee. We may also face liability in the event the employer hires such applicant and that employee then causes personal or monetary injury or damage to the employer, its other employees or other third parties. The adverse publicity from any such event, as well as the liability to which we may be subject, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, an imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or that is in excess of our insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be required to indemnify our customers or data suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results to the extent such claims are not covered by insurance. Some of our customer and supplier contracts contain indemnification provisions that require us to indemnify our customers and suppliers against certain claims, including claims for improper use of information, non-compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our services and intellectual property infringement. To the extent these claims are successful and are not covered by or exceed our insurance coverage, these obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a downturn in the general economy. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from pre-employment screening services. A general economic downturn, such as one that may be occurring at the present time, could result in a reduced demand for our services, as our revenues are dependent upon general economic and hiring conditions and upon conditions in the industries served by us. To the extent that the economy in general or labor market conditions in particular deteriorate, our existing and potential customers may slow or defer hiring new or replacement employees, and may be reluctant to increase expenditures on those employees they do screen. In addition, employees may choose to change employment less frequently during an economic downturn. This could interfere with our growth strategy of increasing the number of background screens performed by, and average revenue per order of, our customer base, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 If we are unable to successfully manage our relationships with third-party providers of complementary products and services, including human resource outsourcing providers and recruiting software application providers, we may lose referral sources or may no longer be able to integrate with their systems, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have arrangements with human resource outsourcing, or HRO, providers and providers of recruiting software applications, which provide us a source of customer referrals and may allow us to integrate our services with these providers and our mutual customers. If our agreements with such providers are terminated, we may lose these referral sources, our sales cycle for certain new customers could increase and certain of our screening services may become less convenient for our customers. In addition, if these arrangements are terminated as a result of contract renegotiation or otherwise, we may lose the ability to integrate with the software applications of these companies. Our inability to integrate could jeopardize our relationship with existing customers or put us at a competitive disadvantage in obtaining new customers that require integration with the software applications of these companies. Some of these providers have begun or may begin, by acquisition or other affiliation, providing screening services themselves, and may elect to direct all or substantially all of their customers' business to themselves or their affiliated companies. In addition, should a provider update its products without providing sufficient notice to us, this could result in errors, delays and interruptions in providing services to our integrated customers. A termination of our arrangements with these third-party providers, or their refusal to refer customers to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches and improper use of information may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation. Our solutions involve the collection and transmission of confidential information of customers and their existing and potential employees. A security breach in our facilities, computer networks, or databases could expose us to a risk of loss of, or unauthorized access to and use of, this information, which could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers or the imposition of fines or other penalties by governmental agencies and claims by our customers and their applicants and employees. Despite security measures we maintain, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, employee malfeasance and similar intrusions, and our third-party contractors who handle information also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of proprietary and sensitive personal information. If unauthorized parties gain access to our services or our networks or databases, or if authorized parties utilize our services for non-permissible purposes, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our confidential and sensitive third-party personal information. Any inability to protect the security and privacy of our data and electronic transactions, or any misuse of our information services by our customers, employees, vendors or hackers, could cause significant harm to our business and reputation and result in significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not discovered until they have been launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. An actual or perceived breach of our security could have one or more of the following material and adverse effects: •deter customers from using our services and harm our reputation; •expose us to liability; •increase operating expenses to correct problems caused by the breach; •deter data suppliers from supplying information to us; •affect our ability to meet customers' expectations; or 15 •cause inquiries from or sanctions and penalties by governmental authorities, such as the Federal Trade Commission, which has imposed significant penalties on companies that fail to adequately protect personal data, and states' attorneys general, who have authority to impose fines or penalties with respect to breaches under state laws. We may be subject to and in violation of state private investigator licensing laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our ability to do business in certain states and subject us to liability. The laws and regulations relating to private investigator licensing requirements vary among the states and are subject to differing interpretations. Failure to correctly interpret and comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of penalties or restrictions on our ability to continue our operations in certain states if it is determined that they are applicable to us. In the past, we received cease and desist notices from three states, alleging that we were in violation of their respective private investigator licensing laws and regulations. We have also received inquiries from three other states. The inquiries from two of the states have been resolved without the need for any further action. We have responded to these notices and inquiries and are currently in the process of applying for and obtaining private investigator licenses in any of the remaining states which have advised us to obtain such a license. We cannot assure you that we will be granted such licenses or that we will not receive additional inquiries from other state agencies. Currently we are licensed as a private investigator in six states, including the state of California. If we are required to cease or limit our operations or penalties or fines are imposed upon us in one or more states, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant competition, and if we fail to compete successfully, our sales could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is and is expected to remain highly competitive. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: the technology-enabled, ease-of-use, level of functionality and end-to-end efficiency of our solution; our ability to integrate with customer systems and major software applications; the breadth and geographical reach of our service offerings; the speed of our screening results; pricing and return on investment for our customers; and our successful track record and reference base with similarly situated companies. We compete with a variety of companies that provide a broad range of screening services, and some of these competitors are larger than we are and have more resources than we do, or are better financed than we are, have a greater global presence than we do, or provide more diversified services than we do. As a public company, our competitors have access to information about us and our business, while we may not have access to similar information about them. We compete with a diverse group of screening companies, ranging from large public companies such as ChoicePoint, Inc. and First Advantage Corp., or divisions of such large public companies, to many smaller privately-held regional companies. Due in part to their size and resources, certain competitors may be able to allocate greater resources than we can, and may be in a better position to anticipate and respond to existing and changing customer preferences and requirements, emerging technologies and market trends. Some competitors also sell their data to us and may refuse to provide services to us or may charge us higher fees to reduce our competitive position. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances or consolidation among competitors may emerge and significantly increase competition. In addition, we face difficulties in competing for customers who already have long-standing relationships with other screening service providers, especially if the solutions provided by such competitors are already integrated into the customer's technology platform or hiring processes, which often create a barrier to switching providers and increase the employer's switching costs. If we fail to successfully compete, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Our contracts with our customers generally do not require that they use us exclusively and do not guarantee that we will receive any revenues from them. We typically enter into multi-year contracts with our customers. These contracts generally do not require our customers to purchase any minimum amounts of services from us, and our customers generally are not contractually bound to use our services exclusively. Our customers can generally stop doing business with us for any reason at any time without notice or penalty. As such, we cannot assure you that new customers will commence ordering our services or that existing customers will continue to order our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, the additional demands and strain on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Growing our existing business or executing our business strategy may place significant demands on and strain our personnel and organizational structure, including our management, staff and information systems. To manage our growth successfully, we must maintain appropriate staffing levels and subject matter experts, and update our operating, financial and other systems, procedures and controls accordingly. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Being a public company has and will continue to increase our expenses and administrative workload, which could strain our available resources. As a public company, we are required to comply with certain additional laws, regulations and requirements, including provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market. Complying with these laws, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and has and will continue to increase our costs and expenses. Compliance with these laws, regulations and requirements, in particular Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has and will continue to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will likely require us to hire additional personnel or consultants. In order to comply with these laws, regulations and requirements, we will need to continue to: •expand the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management; •institute more comprehensive compliance functions and add an internal audit function; •evaluate, improve and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations and requirements of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; •prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •implement more comprehensive internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •involve to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; •use investor relations support personnel; and •hire additional personnel to perform external reporting and internal accounting functions, including tax accounting functions. If we fail to take some of these actions, in particular with respect to our internal audit and accounting functions and our compliance function, our ability to timely and accurately report our financial results could be impaired. 17 In addition, being a public company has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and in the future we may be required to accept reduced coverage or pay substantially higher insurance premiums to obtain adequate coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting or fail to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or to prevent fraud, and our stock price could decline. As a public company, we are required to evaluate, document and test our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent auditors attest to our evaluation. Such report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. The report will also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal controls. The rules governing the standards that must be met to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. In addition, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we cannot remediate the material weaknesses in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404, we will be unable to assert that such internal controls are effective. We have prepared an internal plan of action for compliance with Section 404 and for testing our system of internal control to provide the basis for our report, but we cannot assure you that this plan of action will be sufficient to meet the rigorous requirements of Section 404. In addition, our independent auditors may issue an adverse opinion regarding our Section 404 compliance. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our Company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. Our failure to comply with Section 404 or our reporting requirements could also subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker/dealers to make a market in our common stock. We may expand through acquisitions of, investments in, or strategic business relationships with, other organizations, all of which may divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business, and may not be successful. One of our business strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions of, investments in or strategic business relationships with, other companies that would complement our business and services. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the organizations, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired or affiliated organizations, particularly if the key personnel of such organizations choose not to work for us. Additionally, we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across multiple organizations and locations. Acquisitions, investments or business relationships may also disrupt our ongoing business, 18 divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. We cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. For example, in the event we acquire an organization in part for its customer base, we may have difficulty retaining its customers and experience lower rates of renewal from those customers than we experience with our existing customers. In connection with these transactions we may also: •issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders' ownership; •use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; •incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; and •incur large accounting charges or substantial tax or other liabilities. Seller's expectations regarding valuation are currently robust, and we may not be successful in completing any acquisitions or similar transactions, or may only be able to do so at significant valuations. Our international screening business, as well as maintaining our technology development operations outside the United States, subjects us to a broad range of laws and regulations that may be difficult to manage and could expose us to numerous risks that, individually or together, could materially and adversely affect our business. In 2007, we performed screening services in approximately 200 countries and territories worldwide, primarily for U.S.-based, multinational organizations, as well as for a small number of companies headquartered outside of the United States. We expect to continue to provide screening services in a large number of countries worldwide and we intend to expand our international operations. Privacy and other laws and regulations governing our operations in these jurisdictions may not be fully developed, may vary significantly, are subject to change from time to time, and may sometimes conflict or be subject to multiple interpretations. Identifying, interpreting and complying with these laws and regulations is difficult, and we cannot be certain we have done so or will correctly do so. We currently do not have compliance personnel in any jurisdiction outside the United States. As a result, we rely on our existing knowledge or experience in interpreting or applying local laws and regulations, which generally is limited, or on our customers' or local vendors' knowledge of such laws and regulations. In addition, a majority of our technology development team is currently located in the development center of our wholly-owned subsidiary, HireRight Estonia AS, in Tallinn, Estonia. As a result, we may face difficulties in staffing our technology development operations in Estonia, as well as managing and integrating this team with our operations in the United States. Our international operations may subject us to additional risks and challenges, particularly with respect to: •obtaining qualified, reliable data sources and vendors that cover international markets on reasonable terms, if at all; •complying with local privacy laws and restrictions, as well as local license requirements; •protecting data and intellectual property outside the United States; •enforcing contracts under foreign legal systems, as well as defending claims brought in jurisdictions outside the United States; •managing and staffing international operations; 19 •assimilating to language and cultural differences and doing business with foreign agencies and governments; •currency fluctuations that could impact our margins on international services or could increase the cost of labor at our Estonian subsidiary; and •political and economic instability and international conflicts. Operating and expanding our business internationally could require us to incur additional compliance costs, which may be significant, or could subject us to substantial liability, including civil and criminal penalties and fines, restrictions on our operations, and breach of contract or indemnification claims by our customers and data suppliers, for failure to adequately comply in any or all of these jurisdictions. Any such cost or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. System failures, including failures due to natural disasters or other catastrophic events, could delay and disrupt our services, cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable, uninterrupted service to our customers. We have experienced brief system interruptions in the past, generally relating to specific customers or groups of customers, and we believe that interruptions will continue to occur from time to time in the future. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a number of sources, including a natural disaster or other catastrophic event such as earthquake, fire, flood, terrorist attack, power loss and telecommunications failure, as well as computer viruses, physical and electronic break-ins, software issues, technology glitches, and other similar events, which can temporarily or permanently interrupt services to customers. Although we maintain an out-of-state redundant data center for disaster recovery, any substantial disruption of this sort could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders or operate our websites in a timely manner, or at all. These interruptions may also interfere with the ability of our vendors to provide us information and our employees' ability to perform their responsibilities. In addition, a majority of the verification, document management and data entry functions for our services are conducted by our outsourced vendor who manages operations centers in Mumbai, India and Bangalore, India. Mumbai has experienced natural disasters in the past and, as a result, our outsourced vendor experienced short term system interruptions. Any disruption in the ability of our outsourced vendor to perform such functions in either of their operations facilities may result in service interruptions and delays for our customers. Any interruptions or delays caused by catastrophic events or system failures could harm our brand and reputation, divert our employees' attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to incur increased expenses, cause us to breach service level contract obligations, or cause us to issue credits or lose customers, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, it may reduce our ability to compete for business and we may experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business, and our success is dependent, in part, on protecting our proprietary technology and our brand, marks and domain names. In particular, the processes and software technology solutions we have created to manage screening programs, to deliver pre-integrated solutions with the companies with which we have strategic alliances, to gather information from our users, to deliver our screening services, to interact, aggregate and contextualize the information we obtain from many data sources and suppliers, including the use of algorithms and other analytical tools, are critical to the speed and accuracy of the results we provide in screening reports and the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and 20 trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying our solutions or otherwise infringing on our intellectual property rights. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop solutions similar or superior to ours. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we offer our solutions may not protect our solutions and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In an attempt to protect certain of our proprietary methods, we have three U.S. patent applications pending. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will grant these patents, or that the patents granted will give us the protection that we seek. To protect our brand name, we currently own registered trademarks in the U.S. and over 30 other countries. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. If we discover that a third party is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, we may need to undertake costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure we will prevail in any litigation filed to protect our intellectual property, and even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, we may incur significant legal costs and management's attention may be diverted from the ongoing development of our business, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market services similar to ours or our intellectual property could be harmed or lose its value, either of which could decrease demand for our solutions. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The software and Internet services industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters or other forms of communication. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that we are infringing their proprietary rights, then royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all. As currently pending patent applications are not publicly available, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. These claims, whether or not successful, could require significant management time and attention; result in costly and time-consuming litigation and the payment of substantial damages; require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions to avoid infringement or discontinue the sale of our solutions; create negative publicity that adversely affects our reputation and brand and the demand for our solutions; or require us to indemnify our customers. Even if we have not infringed any third parties' intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management's time, which could adversely affect our business. 21 We rely on key personnel and may need additional personnel for the success and growth of our business. Our business is largely dependent on the personal efforts and abilities of key personnel including Eric Boden, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and our senior management team. Although we have employment contracts with some of our officers, they can terminate their employment relationship with us at any time. We currently do not maintain key person insurance on any officer or employee. Our performance also depends on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled development and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could harm our business and results of operations. We acquire information from a variety of sources to conduct our business, and if some of these sources are not available to us in the future, or if the fees charged by such sources significantly increase, our business may be materially and adversely affected and our profit margins may decline. We rely extensively upon information derived from a wide variety of sources. We obtain information from public filings, information companies and governmental authorities, and we rely on a large number of court vendors for completing local courthouse searches. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our data suppliers. Some data suppliers, as well as some service suppliers, such as the drug testing laboratories we use, are also owned, or may in the future be acquired, by our competitors, which may make us vulnerable to unpredictable price increases or delays and refusals to renew agreements. Because our contracts with our customers often contain restrictions on the amounts or types of costs that may be passed through to our customers, we may not be able to recover any or all of the costs of any increases in fees by our data and service suppliers. If our suppliers are no longer able or are unwilling to provide us with certain data or services, we may need to find alternative sources with comparable breadth and accuracy, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, or attempt to build our own networks at substantial cost. If we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data and service suppliers and integrate them into our service offerings, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs and reduced quality of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. To the extent the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information increases, the demand for our services may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become increasingly available, particularly through the Internet, and we expect this trend to continue. Governmental agencies in particular have increased the amount of information to which they provide free public access. Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our services. To the extent that customers choose not to obtain services from us and instead rely on information obtained at little or no cost from these public sources, our revenues could decrease which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly or annual results of operations may fluctuate in the future, which may cause us to fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts and cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly or annual revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly or annual revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, 22 including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this "Risk Factors" section and in this annual report on Form 10-K: •our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; •seasonality of our business cycle, reflecting the historically higher demand for screening services in the second and third quarters of each year; •the timing and success of new service offerings, product introductions or upgrades by us or our competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; •competition, including entry into the market by new competitors and new service or product offerings by competitors; •the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development, or introducing new services or products; •changes in the pricing charged by our suppliers; •changes in the payment terms for our services; and •the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers. Due to the foregoing factors, among others, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to risks which may cause losses. We invest our cash balances in high-quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer other than the United States government and its agencies. As of December 31, 2007 our investments in marketable securities consist primarily of auction rate securities. Our auction rate securities are investment grade quality and are in compliance with our investment policy as of the end of 2007. We believe that these investments still approximate their par value, however, such risks, including the systemic failure of future auctions for auction rate securities, may result in a loss of liquidity, substantial impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investment in the long-term which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. See Note 3 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our investments in marketable securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 