Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report, as well as general economic and business risks, together with any other documents we file with the SEC. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.Risks Related to Our Business and StrategyOur ability to successfully execute our strategy is dependent on our achieving greater market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test.Our ability to generate revenue depends on our successful marketing of the NMR LipoProfile test. The NMR LipoProfile test accounted for 94% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, 93% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 87% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect that our revenues and profitability will depend on sales of the NMR LipoProfile test for the foreseeable future.There is not currently widespread awareness of the NMR LipoProfile test among clinicians, even though the test has been available since 1999. In order to achieve greater market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test, we must continue to demonstrate to clinicians, other healthcare professionals, clinical diagnostic laboratories, healthcare thought leaders and third-party payors that the test is a clinically useful and cost-effective diagnostic test and disease management tool for cardiovascular disease risk providing improved or additional benefits over traditional cholesterol testing, which has been widely accepted as effective for managing cardiovascular risk for many years.When seeking testing and management recommendations for coronary heart disease, many physicians and other clinicians look to clinical guidelines published by influential organizations. Such organizations include the National Cholesterol Education Program, or NCEP, an authority on cholesterol management overseen by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, or NHLBI, part of the National Institutes of Health, and the AHA. The NMR LipoProfile test is not currently included in guidelines published by NCEP or the AHA. If we are not successful in our strategy of gaining inclusion in the guidelines published by these or other organizations, it could ultimately limit market adoption of the NMR LipoProfile test.Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, and current or future studies may question the utility of LDL-P testing or suggest new approaches or technologies that may be more beneficial to patient care than our current tests or the tests that we may develop in the future. In such cases, it could make it more difficult to persuade clinicians, payors and publishers of clinical guidelines of the utility of our NMR LipoProfile test and other tests that we may develop in the future compared to existing tests or new approaches or technologies.A small number of clinical diagnostic laboratory customers account for most of the sales of our NMR LipoProfile test. If any of these laboratories orders fewer tests from us for any reason, our revenues could decline.For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we generated 84%, 76% and 61% of our revenues, respectively, from clinical diagnostic laboratory customers. Sales to one of these laboratories, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, or LabCorp, accounted for 29% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, 33% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 33% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Sales to a second laboratory customer, Health Diagnostics Laboratory, Inc., accounted for 32% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 21% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.Our current agreements with our laboratory customers do not require them to purchase any minimum quantities of the NMR LipoProfile test. In addition, these customers generally have the right to terminate their respective agreements with us at any time. If any major customer were to terminate its relationship with us, or to substantially diminish its purchases of the NMR LipoProfile test, our revenues could significantly decline or it could adversely impact our revenue growth.26Table of ContentsWe expect to incur losses for the next several years as we increase expenses in our effort to increase market share for the NMR LipoProfile test, place the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, and develop new personalized diagnostic tests.Although we generated net income for the year ended December 31, 2012, we have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $48.0 million. We anticipate experiencing losses for the next several years as we increase expenses in pursuit of our growth strategy and our efforts to increase market share for the NMR LipoProfile test, place the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, and develop new personalized diagnostic tests.Historically, our losses have resulted principally from research and development programs, our sales and marketing efforts, and our general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase due to costs relating to, among other things:•expansion of our direct sales force and increasing our marketing capabilities to promote market awareness and acceptance of our NMR LipoProfile test;•placement of the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories;•development of and, as necessary, pursuit of regulatory approvals for, new diagnostic tests;•expansion of our operating capabilities;•maintenance, expansion and protection of our intellectual property portfolio and trade secrets;•employment of additional clinical, quality control, scientific and management personnel; and•employment of operational, financial, accounting and information systems personnel, consistent with expanding our operations and our status as a newly public company.To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in increasing sales of our NMR LipoProfile test or develop and commercialize new tests with significant market potential, and place the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are sufficient to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain consistently profitable would likely depress the market price of our common stock and could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue to pursue our growth strategy.If we do not establish relationships with additional clinical diagnostic laboratories, we may not be able to increase the number of NMR LipoProfile tests we sell.A significant element of our strategy is to leverage relationships with clinical diagnostic laboratories to increase market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test and gain market share. Most clinicians who request traditional cholesterol tests, our NMR LipoProfile test and other diagnostic tests to evaluate cardiovascular disease risk order these tests through clinical diagnostic laboratories.If we are unable to establish relationships with additional clinical diagnostic laboratories, clinicians who order tests through these laboratories may be unwilling or unable to order our NMR LipoProfile test. In addition, we would not have the benefit of leveraging the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of these laboratories, which we believe is important to our ability to increase awareness of and expand utilization of the NMR LipoProfile test. As a result, if we are unable to establish additional clinical laboratory relationships, our ability to increase sales of our NMR LipoProfile test and to successfully execute our strategy could be compromised.27Table of ContentsWe will need to expand our marketing and sales capabilities in order to increase demand for our NMR LipoProfile test, to expand geographically and to successfully commercialize any other personalized diagnostic tests we may develop.We believe our current sales and marketing operations are not sufficient to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required for us to attain significant commercial success for our NMR LipoProfile test, to expand our geographic presence and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests we may develop. In order to increase sales of our NMR LipoProfile test, we will need to:•expand our direct sales force in the United States by recruiting additional sales representatives in selected markets;•educate clinicians, other healthcare professionals, clinical diagnostic laboratories, healthcare thought leaders and third-party payors regarding the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of our NMR LipoProfile test;•expand our number of clinical diagnostic laboratory and hospital outreach laboratory customers; and•establish, expand and manage sales and reimbursement arrangements with third parties, such as clinical diagnostic laboratories and insurance companies.We have limited experience in selling and marketing the NMR LipoProfile test nationally, and we have only limited experience in placing and servicing the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories for commercial purposes. We intend to hire a significant number of additional sales and marketing personnel with experience in the diagnostic, medical device or pharmaceutical industries. We may face competition from other companies in these industries, some of whom are much larger than us and who can pay significantly greater compensation and benefits than we can, in seeking to attract and retain qualified sales and marketing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel, our business will suffer.Furthermore, in order to successfully commercialize diagnostic tests that we may develop in the future, we may need to conduct lengthy, expensive clinical trials and develop dedicated sales and marketing operations to achieve market awareness and demand. If we are not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales and commercialization strategies, we may not be able to expand geographically, increase sales of our NMR LipoProfile test or successfully commercialize any future diagnostic tests that we may develop.The diagnostic industry features rapidly changing technology that could make our current test or the tests we are developing obsolete or less competitive unless we continue to develop and manufacture new and improved tests and pursue new market opportunities.Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of our expertise or in areas that have unproven market demand, and the utility and value of new tests that we develop may not be accepted in the market. Our inability to gain market acceptance of new tests could harm our future operating results. Further, if new research or clinical evidence or economic comparative evidence arises that supports a different marker for coronary heart disease risk, demand for our test could decline.Our NMR LipoProfile test competes with other diagnostic testing methods that may be more widely accepted than our test.The clinical diagnostics market is highly competitive, and we must be able to compete effectively against existing and future competitors in order to be successful. In selling our NMR LipoProfile test, we compete primarily with existing diagnostic, detection and monitoring technologies, particularly the conventional lipid panel test, which is relatively inexpensive, widely reimbursed and broadly accepted as an effective test for managing the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. We also compete against companies that offer other methods for directly or indirectly measuring cholesterol concentrations, lipoproteins or lipoprotein particles. For example, measuring apolipoprotein B, or apoB, is an indirect way to approximate LDL-P. ApoB tests are offered by many clinical diagnostic laboratories and are generally less expensive than our tests. It is possible that apoB, or other competing tests, could be perceived by clinicians as more cost-effective than our test in providing information useful in managing CHD risk. In addition, some competitors offering these competing technologies may have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, distribution and public relations resources than we have. They may also have more experience in research and development, regulatory matters, manufacturing and marketing than we do, and may have established broad third-party reimbursement for their tests. If we do not compete successfully, we will not be able to increase our market share and our business will be seriously harmed.28Table of ContentsEven though the Vantera system has received regulatory clearance in the United States, if laboratories are not receptive to placement of the Vantera system at their facilities, or if we do not receive regulatory clearance of the Vantera system in other jurisdictions, our growth strategy may not be successful.A key element of our strategy is to place the Vantera system, our next-generation automated clinical NMR analyzer, on site with qualified clinical diagnostic laboratory customers to broaden access to our technology and increase demand for our NMR LipoProfile test and any future diagnostic tests that we may develop. Although we received clearance from the FDA to perform the FDA-cleared measurements of the NMR LipoProfile test using the Vantera system in August 2012, we have not applied for clearance from comparable regulatory agencies in other countries for the Vantera system, and we may not receive regulatory clearance for the commercial use of the Vantera system in other countries on a timely basis, or at all. Even though the Vantera system is cleared by the FDA, it may not gain significant acceptance by clinical diagnostic laboratories, or these laboratories may not be satisfied with the Vantera system after it is placed in their facilities. If clinical diagnostic laboratories do not accept the placement of the Vantera system in their facilities, our ability to grow our business by deploying the Vantera system could be compromised.We rely on two key suppliers for the components used in the Vantera system. If we were to lose either of these suppliers, our ability to broadly place the Vantera system could be compromised.We currently rely on a single supplier, Agilent Technologies, Inc., for the magnet, probe and console incorporated in the Vantera system. These are the key components of the analyzers necessary to perform our NMR LipoProfile test. We are party to a supply agreement with Agilent pursuant to which we have agreed to exclusively purchase all of our NMR-related components from them. We are also party to a production agreement with KMC Systems, Inc. under which KMC is our exclusive manufacturer of the sample handler and shell for the Vantera system.We are currently aware of one other primary supplier of NMR spectrometers, Bruker BioSpin, part of Bruker Corporation. We have in the past acquired NMR spectrometers from Bruker BioSpin, and we use them in our current generation of NMR clinical analyzers, but we do not currently have an agreement or relationship with Bruker BioSpin. In the event it is necessary or desirable to acquire NMR spectrometers from Bruker BioSpin, we might not be able to obtain them on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. It could also require significant time and expense to redesign our current analyzers or the Vantera system to work with the spectrometers provided by another company.If we are unable to obtain the NMR components we need at a reasonable price or on a timely basis, we may be unable to maintain the analyzers we use in our facility to perform our NMR LipoProfile test, which could compromise our ability to meet our customers' orders for the test. Likewise, if the components or any other part of the Vantera system are not available when needed, we may not be able to place the Vantera system broadly, which could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy.If we do not successfully develop or acquire and introduce new personalized diagnostic tests or other applications of our technology, we may not generate new sources of revenue and may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy.Our business strategy includes the acquisition, development and introduction of new clinical diagnostic applications of our NMR-based technology in addition to our NMR LipoProfile test. Additionally, we believe that for our Vantera system to be attractive to laboratories to place in their facilities, it may be necessary for us to offer additional tests for use on the Vantera system. All of our diagnostic tests under development will require significant additional research and development, a commitment of significant additional resources and possibly costly and time-consuming clinical testing prior to their commercialization. Our technology is complex, and we cannot be sure that any tests under development will be developed successfully, be proven to be effective, offer diagnostic or other improvements over currently available tests, meet applicable regulatory standards, be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed.We may also in the future seek to acquire complementary products or technologies from third parties. Integrating any product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time-consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any tests or technologies effectively, we may not be able to implement our business model. If we do not successfully develop new clinical diagnostic applications of our NMR-based technology or acquire complementary diagnostic products, we could lose interest from academic medical centers and could also lose revenue opportunities with existing or future clinical laboratory customers.29Table of ContentsIf we are not able to retain and recruit qualified management, sales and marketing, regulatory and research and development personnel, we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy.Our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team, including Richard O. Brajer, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Lucy G. Martindale, our Chief Financial Officer; James D. Otvos, our Chief Scientific Officer and founder; Timothy J. Fischer, our Chief Operating Officer; and Thomas S. Clement, our Vice President of Regulatory and Quality Affairs. The loss of any or all of these individuals, or other management personnel, could harm our business and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We have entered into an employment agreement or offer letters with each of these individuals and with our other executives. The existence of an employment agreement or offer letter does not, however, guarantee retention of these employees, and we may not be able to retain those individuals for the duration of or beyond the end of their respective terms. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our management personnel.Recruiting and retaining qualified sales and marketing, regulatory, scientific and laboratory personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms, given the competition among numerous diagnostic, medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similarly skilled personnel.If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business will be harmed.During the past several years, we have significantly expanded our operations, and we expect this expansion to continue to an even greater degree as we seek to expand nationally and explore potential expansion into international markets. Our growth has placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operating and financial systems and our sales, marketing and administrative resources. As a result of our growth, our operating costs may escalate even faster than planned, and some of our internal systems may need to be enhanced or replaced. If we cannot effectively manage our expanding operations and our costs, we may not be able to continue to grow or we may grow at a slower pace and our business could be adversely affected.We currently perform our tests exclusively in one laboratory facility. If this or any future facility or our equipment were damaged or destroyed, or if we experience a significant disruption in our operations for any reason, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially harmed.We currently perform our NMR LipoProfile tests exclusively in a single laboratory facility in Raleigh, North Carolina. If this or any future facility were to be damaged, destroyed or otherwise unable to operate, whether due to fire, floods, hurricanes, storms, tornadoes, other natural disasters, employee malfeasance, terrorist acts, power outages, or otherwise, or if performance of our analyzers is disrupted for any other reason, we may not be able to perform our tests or generate test reports as promptly as our customers expect, or possibly not at all. If we are unable to perform our tests or generate test reports within a timeframe that meets our customers' expectations, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.Currently, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $12 million against damage to our property and equipment and an additional $10 million to cover business interruption and research and development restoration expenses, subject to deductibles and other limitations. If we have underestimated our insurance needs with respect to an interruption, or if an interruption is not subject to coverage under our insurance policies, we may not be able to cover our losses.Failure in our information technology, storage systems or our analyzers could significantly disrupt our operations and our research and development efforts, which could adversely impact our revenues, as well as our research, development and commercialization efforts.Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, or IT, systems, which support our operations and our research and development efforts, as well as our storage systems and our clinical analyzers, including the Vantera system analyzers. Due to the sophisticated nature of the NMR technology we use in our testing, we are substantially dependent on our IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our NMR analyzers, including any Vantera system analyzers placed in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Any interruption in the operation of our NMR analyzers, due to IT system failures, part failures or potential disruptions in the event we are required to relocate our analyzers within our facility or to another facility, or failures of the Vantera system analyzers within the facilities of third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, could have an adverse effect on our operations.30Table of ContentsWe rely on courier delivery services to transport samples to our facility for analysis. If these delivery services are disrupted, our business and customer satisfaction could be negatively impacted.Clinicians and clinical laboratories ship samples to us by air and ground express courier delivery service for analysis in our Raleigh, North Carolina facility. Disruptions in delivery service, whether due to bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats, or for other reasons, can adversely affect specimen quality and our ability to provide our services on a timely basis to customers.Our business involves the use of hazardous materials that could expose us to environmental and other liabilities.Our laboratory facility is subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, biological materials and various compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to our employees and third parties from hazardous materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances other than limited clean-up expense coverage for environmental contamination due to an otherwise insured peril, such as fire.If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition or reputation.Diagnostic testing entails the risk of product liability, and we may be exposed to liability claims arising from the use of our tests. We maintain product liability insurance that is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and is in an amount that we believe to be reasonable. We cannot be certain, however, that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to liability. As a result, we may be required to pay all or a portion of any successfully asserted product liability claim out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to avoid significant product liability claims, which could hurt our reputation and our financial condition.If we expand sales of our products or place the Vantera system outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to costs and risks associated with international operations.As part of our longer-term growth strategy, we may decide to target select international markets to grow our presence outside of the United States. Conducting international operations would subject us to new risks that, generally, we have not faced in the United States, including:•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;•uncertain regulatory registration and approval processes for seeking clearance of the Vantera system and our diagnostic tests;•competition from companies located in the countries in which we offer our products, which may be a competitive disadvantage;•difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and assuring compliance with foreign corrupt practices laws;•the possibility of management distraction;•potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, tax inefficiencies related to our corporate structure and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;•political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and31Table of Contents•reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.The occurrence of any one of these risks could harm our business or results of operations. Additionally, operating internationally requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability.We may use third-party collaborators to help us develop, validate or commercialize any new diagnostic tests, and our ability to commercialize such tests could be impaired or delayed if these collaborations are unsuccessful.We may license or selectively pursue strategic collaborations for the development, validation and commercialization of any new diagnostic tests we may develop. In any third-party collaboration, we would be dependent upon the success of the collaborators in performing their responsibilities and their continued cooperation. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators' resources that will be devoted to performing their responsibilities under our agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The development, validation and commercialization of our potential tests will be delayed if collaborators fail to conduct their responsibilities in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or if they breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us. Disputes with our collaborators could also impair our reputation or result in development delays, decreased revenues and litigation expenses.Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock.We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market. The Sarbanes‑Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Form 10-K filing for that year, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act. This will require that we incur substantial additional professional fees and internal costs to expand our accounting and finance functions and that we expend significant management efforts. The controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. Prior to our initial public offering in January 2013, we were never required to test our internal controls within a specified period, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner. We are in the early stages of conforming our internal control procedures to the requirements of Section 404 and we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation needed to comply with Section 404 in a timely fashion. Our independent registered public accounting firm was not engaged to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2012 or for any other period. Our independent registered public accounting firm's audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, no such opinion was expressed. Even if we develop effective controls, these new controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate.Even after we develop new procedures, material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered. Our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected.In order to fully comply with Section 404, we will need to retain additional employees to supplement our current finance staff, and we may not be able to so in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, in the process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting we expect that certain of our internal control practices will need to be updated to comply with the requirements of Section 404 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, or at all. 32Table of ContentsIf we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce timely and accurate financial statements, and we may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. If that were to happen, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our common stock could decline. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other obligations under our credit facility, the lenders may be able to accelerate amounts owed under the facility and may foreclose upon the assets securing our obligations.In December 2012, we entered into a credit facility with Oxford Finance, or Oxford, and Square 1 Bank, or Square 1. The facility consists of $10 million in term loans from Oxford, a $6 million term loan from Square 1 and a $6 million revolving line of credit from Square 1. The term loans are payable in monthly installments of interest only through January 2014 and then principal and interest thereafter in monthly installments through July 2016. The line of credit matures in December 2013. Borrowings under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our tangible assets. The covenants set forth in the loan and security agreement require, among other things, that we maintain a specified liquidity ratio, measured monthly, that begins at 1.25 and is reduced to 1.0 over the term of the agreement, and that we achieve minimum three-month trailing revenue levels during the term of the agreement, which are based on 80% of our projected revenue levels. In addition, the loan and security agreement requires that our projections provided to the lenders include annual projected revenues of at least $55 million. If we fail to comply with the covenants and our other obligations under the credit facility, the lenders would be able to accelerate the required repayment of amounts due under the loan agreement and, if they are not repaid, could foreclose upon our assets securing our obligations under the credit facility.We may need to raise additional capital to meet our financial obligations and to pursue our business objectives, and if we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may have to curtail or cease operations.We cannot assure you that the proceeds of our recent initial public offering will be sufficient to fully fund our business and growth strategy. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing to continue to fund or expand our operations.Our actual liquidity and capital funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including:•the extent to which our tests, including the NMR LipoProfile test and other tests under development, are successfully developed, gain regulatory clearance and market acceptance and become and remain competitive;•our ability to obtain more extensive medical policy coverage for our tests, and our ability to effectively manage and control the pricing we receive from third-party clinical laboratories for our tests;•our ability to collect our accounts receivable;•the costs and timing of further expansion of our sales and marketing activities and research and development activities; and•the timing and results of any regulatory approvals that we are required to obtain for our diagnostic tests.If we seek to raise additional capital in order to meet various objectives, including developing future diagnostic tests, increasing working capital and responding to competitive pressures, that capital may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit facility, we may be restricted from using the net proceeds of financing transactions for our operating objectives. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Furthermore, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute your ownership interest in us and may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the terms of the financing may adversely affect your holdings or rights. Debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants.If we are not able to obtain adequate funding when needed, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our diagnostic tests or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves. We also may have to reduce research and development, sales and marketing, customer support or other expenses. Any of these outcomes could harm our business.33Table of ContentsOur net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2012, our available federal net operating losses, or NOLs, and federal research and development tax credits totaled $34.9 million. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income. We believe that we have had one or more ownership changes, as a result of which our existing NOLs are currently subject to limitation. In addition, if we undergo an ownership change in connection with or after our initial public offering, our ability to utilize our NOLs could be further limited by Section 382. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382. We are unable to predict the future ownership and other variables considered by, and elections available pursuant to, Section 382 for determining the usability of our net operating losses. We may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs, even if we attain profitability.We periodically assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our net deferred tax assets. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible profits. As a result of this analysis of all available evidence, both positive and negative, we concluded that a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets should be applied as of December 31, 2012. To the extent we determine that all or a portion of our valuation allowance is no longer necessary, we will recognize an income tax benefit in the period such determination is made for the reversal of the valuation allowance. Once the valuation allowance is eliminated or reduced, its reversal will no longer be available to offset our current tax provision. These events could have a material impact on our reported results of operations.We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, which may adversely affect our operating results.As a public company listed in the United States, and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we will incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.Failure to comply with these rules might also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management.Risks Related to Billing, Coverage and Reimbursement for Our TestsHealth insurers and other third-party payors may decide not to cover, or may discontinue reimbursing, our NMR LipoProfile test or any other diagnostic tests we may develop in the future, or may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our ability to expand our business and achieve profitability.Our business is impacted by the level of reimbursement for our NMR LipoProfile test from third-party payors. In the United States, the regulatory process allows diagnostic tests to be marketed regardless of any coverage determinations made by payors. For new diagnostic tests, each third-party payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover, how much it will pay and whether it will continue reimbursing the test. Clinicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payors if the patient is willing to pay for the test without reimbursement, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product.34Table of ContentsCMS, under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare. CMS currently covers our NMR LipoProfile test. State Medicaid plans and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be obtained. While our test is reimbursed by a number of governmental and private payors, which we believe collectively represent approximately 150 million covered lives, there are significant large private payors who do not currently cover our test. Additionally, certain employers may switch benefit design through their choice of payor, which may also negatively impact coverage for our tests. If CMS or other third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests, place significant restrictions on the use of our tests, or offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. It is possible that current or future studies may question the utility of LDL-P or other tests that we may develop in the future, which could make it more difficult for us to persuade third-party payors of the utility of our NMR LipoProfile test and other tests that we may develop in the future. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to reimburse for our tests, that payor may reduce utilization or stop or lower payment at any time, which could reduce our revenues. For example, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more. We cannot predict whether or when third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement to make them commercially attractive. Clinicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient.Billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our tests may negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability.Billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex. In cases where we do not receive a fixed fee per test performed from a laboratory customer, we perform tests in advance of payment and without certainty as to the outcome of the billing process. In cases where we do receive a fixed fee per test from a laboratory customer, we may still have disputes over pricing and billing. We or our laboratory customers receive payment from individual patients and from a variety of payors, such as commercial insurance carriers, including managed care organizations and governmental programs, primarily Medicare. Each payor typically has different billing requirements, and the billing requirements of many payors have become increasingly stringent.Among the factors complicating our billing of third-party payors are:•disputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment;•disparity in coverage among various payors;•disparity in information and billing requirements among payors; and•incorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the prescribing physician.These billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability.Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our NMR LipoProfile test.In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, which may have far-reaching consequences for most healthcare companies, including diagnostic companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. The mandatory purchase of insurance is strenuously opposed by a number of state governors, resulting in lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of these provisions. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of these provisions of the PPACA. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether in part or in its entirety.Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes.35Table of ContentsRestructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for diagnostic tests like ours. If reimbursement for our diagnostic tests is substantially less than we or our clinical laboratory customers expect, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, certain members of Congress have declared their intentions to repeal some or all of the PPACA, adding further uncertainty to the law's future impact on us.Regardless of the impact of the PPACA on us, the U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs. Any government-adopted reform measures could cause significant pressure on the pricing of healthcare products and services, including our NMR LipoProfile test, in the United States and internationally, as well as the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs may compromise our ability to set prices at commercially attractive levels for the NMR LipoProfile test and other diagnostic tests that we may develop. Changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially diminish the sale of or inhibit the utilization of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management's attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve consistent profitability.New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may also limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for a number of reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our diagnostic tests profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced utilization or reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products.Risks Related to Our Proprietary TechnologyOur NMR LipoProfile test and the Vantera system have limited patent protection, and future personalized diagnostic tests that we may develop may also have limited patent protection. As a result, our intellectual property position may not adequately protect us from competitors for sales of our NMR LipoProfile test, the Vantera system or any future diagnostic tests we may develop.A significant amount of our technology, especially regarding algorithmic processes used in the NMR LipoProfile test, is unpatented. Additionally, the majority of the technology used in our Vantera system is unpatented. As a result, we are dependent to a significant degree upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We also rely on copyrights and trademarks and confidentiality, licenses and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights, as well as, to a more limited extent, patents.In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements may not, however, provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. A breach of confidentiality could significantly affect our competitive position. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.36Table of ContentsThe patent covering elements of our NMR LipoProfile test that we previously licensed from North Carolina State University, or NCSU, expired in August 2011. The U.S. patent we previously licensed from Siemens Medical Systems expired in 2008. We also own or co-own with exclusive license rights a number of U.S. patents and patent applications. The claims of the issued U.S. patents owned by or licensed to us, and the claims of any patents that may issue in the future and be owned by or licensed to us, may not confer on us significant commercial protection against competing diagnostic products. Third parties may challenge, narrow, invalidate or circumvent any patents we own or license currently or in the future. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. Further, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential diagnostic product, it is possible that any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we file for patent protection relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may preclude issuance of patents or may not protect our patent rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States.We also hold copyrights, including copyright registrations, on documentation and software for our NMR LipoProfile test and have a number of registered and unregistered trademarks, including a trademark for Vantera. These copyrights and trademarks may not, however, provide competitive advantages for us, and our competitors may challenge or circumvent these copyrights and trademarks. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect these types of proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.NMR spectroscopy technology, which we use in performing our NMR analyses, is not proprietary and is known in the scientific community generally, and it is possible to duplicate the methods we use to perform our diagnostic tests. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing diagnostic products that do not infringe our intellectual property.If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be harmed.Our research, development and commercialization activities, including our current NMR LipoProfile test and our NMR-based technology platform, as well as any other diagnostic test resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by other parties. There may also be patent applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the diagnostic product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit.As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek licenses from third parties. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical diagnostics industry. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference, derivation or post-grant proceedings declared or granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and similar proceedings in foreign countries, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our current or future diagnostic tests or devices. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace.37Table of ContentsWe may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive and time-consuming.Competitors may infringe our intellectual property, including our patents or the patents of our licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to stop third-party infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patent claims do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or other proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.Interference, derivation or other proceedings brought at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors or collaborators. Litigation or USPTO proceedings brought by us may fail or may be invoked against us by third parties. Even if we are successful, domestic or foreign litigation or USPTO or foreign patent office proceedings may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our licensors or collaborators, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States.Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or other proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation or proceedings. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation or proceedings, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments or public access to related documents. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed.Risks Related to Government Regulation of Our Diagnostic TestsIf we are unable to comply with the requirements of the Clinical Laboratories Improvement Amendments of 1988 and state laws governing clinical laboratories or if we are required to expend significant additional resources to comply with these requirements, the success of our business could be threatened.HHS has classified our NMR LipoProfile test as a high-complexity test under CLIA, which has implemented more stringent. Personnel requirements for laboratories conducting high-complexity tests are more stringent than those applicable to laboratories performing less complex tests. These personnel requirements require us to employ more experienced or more highly educated personnel and additional categories of employees, which increases our operating costs. If we fail to meet CLIA requirements, HHS or state agencies could require us to cease our NMR LipoProfile testing or other testing subject to CLIA that we may develop in the future. Even if it were possible for us to bring our laboratory back into compliance, we could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenues in doing so. Moreover, new interpretations of current regulations or future changes in regulations under CLIA may make it difficult or impossible for us to comply with our CLIA classification, which would significantly harm our business.Many states in which our physician and laboratory clients are located, such as New York, have laws and regulations governing clinical laboratories that are more stringent than federal law and may apply to us even if we are not located, and do not perform our NMR LipoProfile test, in that state. We may also be subject to additional licensing requirements as we expand our sales and operations into new geographic areas, which could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy.Portions of our NMR LipoProfile test are subject to the FDA's exercise of enforcement discretion, and any changes to the FDA's policies with respect to this exercise of enforcement discretion could hurt our business.Clinical laboratory tests that are developed and validated by a laboratory for its own use are called laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs. The laws and regulations governing the marketing of diagnostic products for use as LDTs are extremely complex and in many instances there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws. For instance, while the FDA maintains that LDTs are subject to the FDA's authority as diagnostic medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, the FDA has generally exercised enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable regulations with respect to most tests performed by CLIA-certified laboratories.We have obtained, FDA clearance for several of the measurements we report as part of the NMR LipoProfile test, specifically LDL-P, HDL-C and triglycerides, in order to support our strategy of decentralizing access to the test, which will be helpful in order to make our test commercially available for other laboratories to perform and to report patient results. The remainder of the results reported as part of our NMR LipoProfile test, including HDL-P, small LDL-P and LDL size, as well as a number of lipoprotein markers associated with insulin resistance and diabetes risk, are LDTs and we include them in our report on this basis.38Table of ContentsWhen the Vantera system is placed in third-party laboratories, if they elect to report these non-FDA cleared test results to their customers, we will generate the test results in our clinical laboratory using either NMR spectrum data digitally sent to us by the third-party laboratory or a portion of the original blood sample that they send to us. This division of LDT data collection and reporting of test results has not been endorsed or approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will continue to regard these as LDTs.In the third quarter of 2011, we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA for HDL-P. In March 2012, we voluntarily withdrew that submission and have since worked with the FDA outside of the formal review process to resolve issues identified by the FDA with respect to our submission. Specifically, the FDA raised concerns relating to two clinical studies from which we acquired specimens that we tested to produce data in support of our application. Both studies were conducted by other sponsors and involved large populations. In one case, the FDA expressed concern that the subjects of the study were initially evaluated in the early 1990s and, more specifically, that the specimens were too old and the criteria used to determine a cardiovascular event during that time period were no longer representative of current medical practice. In the second case, the FDA expressed the concern that, because we could only use specimens from the group of subjects who had previously given permission to use their results for commercial purposes, it was possible that this portion of the study population was not representative of the entire population and the results may therefore have been biased.We resubmitted the 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA, seeking clearance of the HDL-P test, in December 2012. This submission was based on data derived from specimens both from a more recent large, third-party clinical study, as well as the complete data set from the study for which FDA had been concerned with bias. In February 2013, the FDA provided us with comments on our submission and asked for additional information from us. We are actively working with the FDA to provide them with the requested information, and to resolve the issues they have identified. There can be no assurance, however, that we will obtain clearance for this LDT. We have not yet sought FDA clearance for any other LDTs but currently intend to do so for some of these non-cleared portions of our test. In the event we were to not receive clearance for HDL-P or these other tests, we would plan to continue to offer them as LDTs.The regulation of diagnostic tests classified as LDTs may become more stringent in the future. The FDA held a meeting in July 2010 during which it indicated that it intends to reconsider its current policy of enforcement discretion and to begin drafting an oversight framework for LDTs. We cannot predict the extent of the FDA's future regulation and policies with respect to LDTs and there can be no assurance that the FDA will not require us to obtain premarket clearance or approval for some or all of the non-FDA cleared portions of our NMR LipoProfile test report. If the FDA imposes significant changes to the regulation of LDTs, or if Congress were to pass legislation that more actively regulates LDTs and in vitro diagnostic tests, it could restrict our ability to provide the portions of our test that are not cleared by the FDA or potentially delay the launch of future tests.While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to LDTs and we believe that our provision of these second-page results to the third-party laboratories utilizing the Vantera system will continue to be regarded as LDTs, we cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies would agree with our determination, and a determination that we have violated these laws, or a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violation of these laws, could hurt our business and our reputation. A significant change in any of these laws, or the FDA's interpretation of the scope of its enforcement discretion, may also require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws.If we are unable to obtain the required clearance of the currently non-cleared portions of our test from the FDA, third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories may be less willing to accept the Vantera system in their facilities.In December 2011, we submitted a new 510(k) premarket notification for the Vantera system without a site restriction, and in August 2012 we received FDA clearance to market our Vantera system commercially to laboratories. Since then, we have entered into agreements with some of our current clinical diagnostic laboratory customers to place the Vantera system in their laboratories, and we are also in discussions with additional laboratory customers that have indicated a similar interest in the placement of the Vantera system. In addition, we are placing the Vantera system with academic centers that are collaborating with us to develop additional high value diagnostic assays based on NMR technology. We expect placement of the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratory facilities will facilitate their ability to offer our NMR LipoProfile test and other personalized diagnostic tests that we may develop.39Table of ContentsIn the third quarter of 2011, we submitted a 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA seeking clearance of the HDL-P test, as performed on our current NMR-based clinical analyzer platform. In March 2012, the FDA notified us that there were issues with our 510(k) submission that will need to be resolved prior to FDA clearance. We voluntarily withdrew our submission and have since worked with the FDA outside of the formal review process to resolve those issues. We resubmitted our 510(k) premarket notification to the FDA in December 2012, seeking clearance of the HDL-P test as performed on our current generation clinical analyzers or using the Vantera system, with a goal of having the HDL-P test cleared by the FDA in 2013. In February 2013, the FDA provided us with comments on our submission and requested additional information. We are actively working with the FDA to provide them with the requested information, and to resolve the issues that they have identified. We also intend to submit some of the other currently non-cleared test measurements to the FDA for 510(k) clearance.If FDA clearance or approval of the non-cleared portions of our test is delayed or does not occur, clinical diagnostic laboratories may be less willing to accept the Vantera system in their facilities. Historically, many of our customers have valued the results from the non-FDA cleared portions of our test. Once the Vantera system is placed in third-party laboratories, at the option of the third-party laboratories, we will still make the second-page test results available to them at no additional charge for dissemination along with the first-page results. We will generate these second-page results in our clinical laboratory using either NMR spectrum data digitally sent to us by the third-party laboratory or a portion of the original blood sample that they send to us. We will then send the second-page results back to the third-party laboratories, which will report them to their customer along with the first-page results. Third-party laboratories utilizing the Vantera system may find the options for receiving the non-cleared portions of our test report unacceptable, which may result in less use or adoption of the Vantera system by third-party laboratories, or less willingness to accept the placement of the Vantera system in their facilities in the first place.In addition, our NMR LipoProfile test report would continue to include a disclaimer that any non-cleared portions of tests had not been cleared by the FDA and that the clinical utility of such results had not been fully established. Furthermore, even if we do obtain FDA clearance for the currently non-cleared portions of our test, new premarket submissions for any modifications or enhancements we later make to such test, or to the Vantera system, that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the test or the Vantera system, would be required. We cannot be sure that clearance of a new 510(k) premarket notification would be granted on a timely basis, or at all, or that FDA clearance processes will not involve costs and delays that could adversely affect our ability to pursue our growth strategy.The NMR LipoProfile test is, and any other test for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval will be, subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products.Any test or medical device for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval, including the Vantera system that received FDA clearance in August 2012, along with the manufacturing processes, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such test or device, will be subject to continual requirements of, and review by, the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements relating to product labeling, advertising and promotion, and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a test or device is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval. In addition, approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the test or device. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with our tests, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as:•restrictions on manufacturing processes;•restrictions on marketing of a test;•restrictions on distribution;•warning letters;•withdrawal of the test from the market;•refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;•recall of tests;•fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue;40Table of Contents•suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals;•refusal to permit the import or export of our products;•product seizure;•injunctions; or•imposition of civil or criminal penalties.Our business is subject to other complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations. If we or any of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers fail to comply with these regulations, we could incur significant fines and penalties.As a provider of clinical diagnostic testing products and services, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various aspects of our business. In particular, the clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental certification and licensing regulations, as well as federal and state laws regarding:•test ordering and billing practices;•marketing, sales and pricing practices;•health information privacy and security, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and comparable state laws;•insurance;•anti-markup legislation; and•consumer protection.We are also required to comply with FDA regulation of our manufacturing practices and adverse event reporting activities, and regulation by the FDA of our labeling and promotion activities. In addition, advertising of our tests is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act. Violation of any FDA requirement could result in enforcement actions, such as seizures, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, and violation of the FTC Act could result in injunctions and other associated remedies, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most states also have similar postmarket regulatory and enforcement authority for devices. Additionally, most foreign countries have authorities comparable to the FDA and processes for obtaining marketing approvals. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals, and complying with all laws and regulations, may subject us to similar risks and delays as those we could experience under FDA and FTC regulation. We incur various costs in complying and overseeing compliance with these laws and regulations.We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future regarding our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect such legislation or regulations may have on us. Federal or state governments may impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to comply with any existing or future regulations, restrictions or interpretations, we could incur significant fines and penalties.If we or any of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers are subject to an enforcement action involving false claims, kickbacks, physician self-referral or other federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could incur significant civil and criminal sanctions and loss of reimbursement, which would hurt our business.The government has made enforcement of the false claims, anti-kickback, physician self-referral and various other fraud and abuse laws a major priority. In many instances, private whistleblowers also are authorized to enforce these laws even if government authorities choose not to do so. Several clinical diagnostic laboratories and members of their management have been the subject of this enforcement scrutiny, which has resulted in very significant civil and criminal settlement payments. In most of these cases, private whistleblowers brought the allegations to the attention of federal enforcement agencies. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that some of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. These laws include:41Table of Contents•the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which regulates our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with health care providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;•federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;•federal physician self-referral laws, such as the Stark law, which prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician's family member has a financial interest, and prohibit submission of a claim for reimbursement pursuant to a prohibited referral; and•state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We monitor our own compliance with federal and state fraud and abuse laws on an ongoing basis. We do not, however, monitor the compliance of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers with federal and state fraud and abuse laws. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and hurt our reputation. If we were excluded from participation in U.S. federal health care programs, we would not be able to receive, or to sell our tests to other parties who receive, reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs. Any similar penalties imposed upon our laboratory customers could also materially harm our revenues and our reputation.Our compliance program has not eliminated all risks related to these laws. In 2011, our general counsel became aware of a practice engaged in by our sales force that potentially implicated the fraud and abuse laws. The practice involved giving gift cards in small denominations, typically $25, to staff in doctors' offices or to employees of our laboratory partners. We do not believe that gift cards were given to the doctors actually ordering our test except in a single case. Since 2005, the total value of gift cards distributed by the sales force was approximately $100,000. After our general counsel learned of this practice, we stopped it. The audit committee of our board of directors later hired outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation of the matter. The investigation concluded that there was no evidence of willful wrongdoing by any of our employees, but did conclude that our internal policies and communications provided inconsistent guidance on the use of gift cards. We have subsequently revised our internal policies to eliminate any inconsistencies, and we have been taking and are continuing to take additional steps to strengthen our compliance activities. Among other things, we have adopted a new policy on interactions with healthcare professionals, which is based on the Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association, or AdvaMed, a leading medical technology association.In late 2011, we decided to voluntarily disclose the gift card issue to the local office of the U.S. Attorney. In December 2011, our counsel disclosed this matter on our behalf to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Raleigh, North Carolina, or the USAO. After various meetings and communications between our counsel and the USAO, the USAO notified us in writing in March 2012 that, based on the information provided by our counsel, it had closed its file without investigation and did not intend to take further action in this matter.Following our receipt of the notification from the USAO, we made a voluntary disclosure of this matter in April 2012 under the formal self-disclosure protocol established by the Office of Inspector General of HHS, or the OIG. Although we do not believe that we violated any laws, we recognized that our conduct potentially implicated the fraud and abuse laws and we decided to voluntarily make the OIG submission to resolve any potential liability. On July 5, 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with the OIG to settle this matter for a payment of approximately $150,000. We neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing in connection with this settlement.42Table of ContentsIn June 2012 we were informed by attorneys with the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of South Carolina, which we refer to collectively as the DOJ, that they were conducting a civil investigation of allegations that we defrauded federal healthcare programs, including allegations that we paid kickbacks to physicians and submitted claims to federal healthcare programs for medically unnecessary lab tests. We believe that this investigation also involves at least one other cardiovascular diagnostics company and likely arose out of a whistleblower action filed under the federal False Claims Act, which permits any individual who purports to have knowledge that false or fraudulent claims have been submitted for government funds to bring suit on behalf of the United States. Such matters are required to be filed under seal and typically are investigated by the DOJ to determine whether it will intervene in the case on behalf of the government.We have cooperated with the DOJ's investigation, including by responding to an extensive document request and by initiating a detailed presentation to representatives of the DOJ on the full range of our financial relationships with health care professionals and on our test ordering forms and procedures. In correspondence to our counsel dated October 19, 2012, the Acting Director of the Fraud Section of DOJ's Civil Division, the office handling the DOJ's investigation, advised us that the Civil Division of the DOJ does not have any present intention, based on facts now known, to pursue further the investigation of our company and/or to file or join suit against us based on the allegations that initiated the investigation, and that we do not need to produce additional documents or information. The DOJ has further advised our counsel that additional action to close the matter publicly should not be expected in the near term, however, because the government's broader investigation, apparently of other parties, will continue for an indefinite period, which we believe is not uncommon in cases involving multiple parties.Although we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that new information will not come to light that would cause the DOJ to resume its investigation with respect to us. The DOJ letter did make clear that it does not preclude actions by agencies or agents of the United States, including the DOJ, to pursue overpayment or recoupment actions of any sort, contract actions, or any other type of legal action, which we are advised by our counsel is language typically included in letters of this type. In addition, if this matter was in fact initiated by a whistleblower under the False Claims Act, then even if the government ultimately declines to intervene and take over the case, the whistleblower has the right under the False Claims Act to conduct the action. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not become subject to similar government inquiries, investigations or actions in the future. Any finding of noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to a variety of penalties and other sanctions as discussed above, the imposition of any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our business. In addition, whether or not we are found to be in non-compliance with any applicable laws, we could incur significant expense in responding to or resolving any such inquiries, investigations or actions and we could be required to modify our business practices in a way that adversely affects our business.Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing products abroad, including our NMR LipoProfile test, the Vantera system and any new diagnostic tests we may develop.We may in the future seek to market our NMR LipoProfile test, and potentially the Vantera system and any new diagnostic tests we may develop, outside the United States. In order to market these products in the European Union and many other jurisdictions, we must submit clinical data and comparative effectiveness data concerning our products and obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional clinical testing. The time required to obtain approval from foreign regulators may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval.In addition, in many countries outside the United States, it is required that our tests be approved for reimbursement before they can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases this may include approval of the price we intend to charge for our products, if approved. We may not obtain approvals from regulatory authorities outside the United States on a timely basis, or at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA, but a failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, regulatory approval in one country may negatively affect the regulatory process in other countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize any tests in any market and therefore may not be able to pursue these revenue opportunities.43Table of ContentsRisks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockAn active trading market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained.Prior to our initial public offering in January 2013, there was no public market for our common stock. The initial public offering price for our common stock was determined through negotiations with the underwriters and may bear no relationship to the price at which the common stock will trade. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained. If an active market for our common stock does not develop, it may be difficult for you to sell shares without depressing the market price for the common stock or to sell your shares at all.The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for diagnostic companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price paid for their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:•sales of substantial amounts of our stock by insiders and large stockholders, or the expectation that such sales might occur;•regulatory or legal developments in the United States and foreign countries;•actual or anticipated variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;•changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;•announcements by us of significant acquisitions, licenses, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•market conditions in the diagnostic sector and issuance of securities analysts' reports or recommendations;•general economic, industry and market conditions;•additions or departures of key personnel;•intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us;•expiration or termination of our potential relationships with customers and strategic partners; and•the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section.In addition, in the past, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against clinical diagnostics companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies' stock. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. As a newly public company, we have only limited research coverage by equity research analysts. Equity research analysts may elect not to initiate or to continue to provide research coverage of our common stock, and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we do have equity research analyst coverage, we will not have any control over the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.44Table of ContentsA significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. A substantial majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be available for sale in the public market beginning in July 2013 following the expiration of lock-up agreements between some of our stockholders and the underwriters for our initial public offering. The representatives of the underwriters may release these stockholders from their lock-up agreements with the underwriters at any time and without notice, which would allow for earlier sales of shares in the public market.In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 registering the issuance of shares of common stock subject to options or other equity awards issued or reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans. The shares registered under this registration statement will be available for sale in the public market subject to vesting arrangements and exercise of options, the lock-up agreements described above, our insider trading policy and the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act in the case of our affiliates.Additionally, the holders of an aggregate of approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock, including shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, or their transferees, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file one or more registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If we were to register the issuance of these shares, they could be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.The issuance of additional stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment, our stock incentive plans or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result.There are provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. An issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders.Our charter documents also contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including:•only one of our three classes of directors is elected each year;•stockholders are not entitled to remove directors other than by a 66 2/3% vote and only for cause;•stockholders are not permitted to take actions by written consent;•stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and•stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings.45Table of ContentsIn addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock, including transactions that may be in your best interests. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management or limit the price that certain investors are willing to pay for our stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders.Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock, in the aggregate, own approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders.We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and our stock may not appreciate in value.We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any existing or future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or that the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares will be able to be maintained.We are an “emerging growth company,” and if we decide to comply only with reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock could be less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” through 2018, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies that become public can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards following the completion of our initial public offering and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. 46Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.