ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's business and prospects. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS, AMONG OTHERS, MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE, OF THE COMPANY. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. We are subject to, among others, the following risks: 8 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS OUR REPUTATION, REVENUES AND OPERATING INCOME MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. As a manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, claims may be brought against us that a product injured its consumer. Our dietary supplement products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval. Our products could contain contaminated substances, and some of our products contain innovative ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. A product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. OUR NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE COMPATIBLE WITH MARKET NEEDS. Our business is particularly subject to changing consumer trends and preferences. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes, and we may not respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to such changes. Because markets for nutrition supplement products differentiate geographically, we must accurately assess demand in each specific market into which we wish to make sales. If we fail to invest in extensive market research on consumer health needs in each market we target, we may face limited market acceptance of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and earning. OUR PRODUCTS MUST KEEP PACE WITH ADVANCES IN THE INDUSTRY OR THEY MAY BE DISPLACED BY COMPETITORS' NEWLY DEVELOPED PRODUCTS. The nutrition supplement products industry is characterized by rapid product development, with significant competitive advantages gained by companies that introduce products that are first to market, deliver constant innovation in products and techniques, offer frequent new product introductions and have competitive prices. Our future growth partially depends on our ability to develop products that are more effective in meeting consumer needs. In addition, we must be able to manufacture and effectively market those products. The sales of our existing products may decline if a competing product is introduced by other companies. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: o accurately anticipate consumer needs; o innovate and develop new products; o successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; o price our products competitively; o manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and o differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we fail to make sufficient investments in research and pay close attention to consumer needs or we focus on technologies that do not lead to more effective products, our current and future products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products of others. OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE COPIED BY OUR COMPETITORS. In general, we rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property. We have been issued patents from the State Intellectual Properties Office in China for two of our products: Tianshi Super Calcium Powder with Metabolic Factors and Tianshi Super Calcium Powder for Children, These two patents are effective for 20 years, which commenced on January 13, 2001. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and trade secrets, our competitors may copy our products, which could hurt our business. 9 OUR MANUFACTURING PROCESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS. There are risks associated with ingredients mixing and production processes and techniques. Our manufacturing process requires a significant degree of technical expertise. If we fail to manufacture our products to specifications or inadvertently use defective materials in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We rely on our manufacturing operations to produce nearly all of the proprietary products we sell. Our manufacturing operations produce all of the products we sell. Any significant disruption in those operations for any reason, such as regulatory requirements and loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force majeure, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships. WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL OVER THE ACTIVITIES OF OUR DISTRIBUTORS. We place significant reliance on a network of affiliates to act as our primary sales force. Although a majority of our affiliated companies are controlled in whole or part by Mr. Jinyuan Li, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, such affiliates are not employed or otherwise controlled by us and are generally free to conduct their business at their own discretion. The distributors are dedicated more to establishing their own reputations and business relationships than to promoting our products. The simultaneous loss of a number of these distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. WE HAVE ONLY RECENTLY BECOME PROFITABLE. We began operating in July 1998, and incurred losses until 2002. Although we have been profitable due to increases in sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, this relatively short history of profitability may not be adequate to fully assess our ability to achieve market acceptance of our products or our ability to respond to competition and continue this level of performances. Therefore, we can give no assurance that we will maintain profitability in the long run. WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS WITH RELATED PARTIES, AND YOUR INVESTMENT MAY BE SUBJECT TO CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND SELF-DEALING RISKS. Due to the inter-related ownership and business dealings among us and our affiliates, there are conflict of interest and self-dealing risks and increased potential for manipulation of financial results. We have affiliated companies or business entities that are owned by Mr. Jinyuan Li and his immediate family members (mostly his daughter Ms. Baolan Li). Although all affiliated companies and business entities were established so that they are legally and financially independent, except for the common ownership, they are centrally administrated by Tianshi Group. The decisions of Tianshi Group could materially affect the operation of our business, which could be adverse to our investors. We sell all of our products for resale in China to Tianshi Engineering. As both we and Tianshi Engineering are majority owned by Mr. Jinyuan Li, even given consideration to the internal price transferring policies set among the related parties, these internal policies could be faulty or might not be strictly followed. We are currently establishing a system to try to ensure the independence of our operations and financial controls. However, there can be no assurance that the systems and controls can be effectively designed. WE FACE RISKS DUE TO OUR RELIANCE ON SALES IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS. Our future success will depend in part on the continued expansion of international sales. Such international operations expose us to certain risks, including but not limited to, need for export licenses; unexpected regulatory requirements; tariffs and other potential trade barriers and restrictions; political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; longer account receivable cycles; difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; foreign currency fluctuations; limited protection of our intellectual property rights in some countries; dependence on local distributors; and potential disruptions in sales due to military or terrorist acts. 10 OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION OVER NUTRITIONAL SUPPLEMENT PRODUCTS IN MARKETS OUTSIDE CHINA. Nutrition supplement products are subject to regulatory requirements that vary by country. Obtaining approval to sell nutrition supplement products internationally involves complexities of dealing with a variety of governmental regulations. We have limited experience in dealing with the specific regulations that may be required to sell our products in certain international markets, which could delay our ability to obtain relevant regulatory approval for our products. In addition, our product sales in other countries are subject to product regulatory regimes of various degrees and direct marketing or distribution regulations. Although currently these aspects are handled by our affiliated distributors in the relevant jurisdictions, there can be no assurance that the current operations of our company and our affiliates and distributors will not be adversely affected by compliance issues and changes in applicable laws and regulations in relevant jurisdictions. THE DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS IS SUBJECT TO REGULATION OUTSIDE CHINA. Products distributed outside China are subject to government regulations of different jurisdictions, which could be stricter than in China. In some developed countries, the government regulations for product approval could be stricter than in China, while in developing countries, government regulation could be uncertain. Our products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval or may never gain approval in certain countries, which could limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute products. In addition, in terms of our marketing approach, multi-level marketing may also be prohibited in some countries. As such, growth in our sales may be adversely affected if such approval cannot be obtained in certain jurisdictions. OUR MANAGEMENT LACKS EXPERIENCE OPERATING A U.S. PUBLIC COMPANY. Our management had no experience operating a U.S. public company before our acquisition of Tianshi International. The initial difficulties with public company regulations faced by U.S. managers of a newly public company are aggravated with respect to our management, by our unfamiliarity with Western regulatory regimes and language and time zone differences. In addition, management must integrate new accounting rules and control procedures. Learning compliance is likely to distract management from operations to a greater degree than might be the case of management of a U.S. company, and the period during which our management masters the rules, when errors are more likely to occur, may be longer. Accordingly, the expense and operational risks inherent to a transition from private to public company are greater for Tiens USA than might usually be the case. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA. As most of our operations are conducted in China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. Although the majority of productive assets in China are owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: o We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; o The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; o The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; and o Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. 11 THE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, MANUFACTURING AND MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS IN CHINA. Government regulation includes inspection of and controls over testing, manufacturing, safety and environmental controls, efficacy, labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping and the sale and distribution of wellness products. Tianshi Engineering is also subject to government regulations with respect to the prices it will charge, the rebates it may offer to customers and the methods of its marketing. Government regulation may substantially increase the cost of developing, manufacturing and selling our products. UNCERTAINTY IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECT SELLING REGULATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS IN CHINA. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and approximately 65%, 50% and 56% of our revenues in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, derive from our operations in China. Accordingly, our operations are subject, to a significant degree, to Chinese law. In China, we are aiming to expand our market share through the branches, chain stores, and Chinese affiliated companies of Tianshi Engineering. In August 2005, China published regulations governing direct selling and prohibiting pyramid promotional schemes and a number of administrative methods and proclamations were issued in proposal form in September 2005. The direct selling regulations require Tianshi Engineering, our affiliate who sells our products in China, to apply for approval to conduct a direct selling enterprise in China. There can be no assurance that Tianshi Engineering will be able to obtain such license. Additionally, although certain regulations have been published, others are pending, and there is uncertainty regarding the interpretation and enforcement of such regulations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX CHINESE BUSINESS REGULATIONS. As China changes its economy from planned to more market-oriented, uncertainties arise regarding governmental policies and measures. Although, in recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and establishment of sound corporate governance practices, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. For example, all lands are State owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental grants of state-owned Land Use Rights. The grant process is typically based on government policies at the time of grant, which can be lengthy and complex and may adversely affect our planed manufacturing expansion. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through allocation of resources, foreign currency control and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. BECAUSE MOST OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS RESIDE OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR ASSETS ARE LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES, IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO ENFORCE THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS AGAINST SUCH INDIVIDUALS OR SUCH ASSETS Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Although China has executed the Agreement on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters with the United States in June 2000, there is no extradition treaty between the United States and China. Therefore, it is unclear whether criminal penalties under United States federal securities laws would be enforced effectively in China, if at all. 12 OUR OPERATING COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDEND PAYMENTS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS TO US. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. THE CHINESE LEGAL SYSTEM IS NOT FULLY DEVELOPED AND HAS INHERENT UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD LIMIT THE LEGAL PROTECTIONS AVAILABLE TO INVESTORS. The Chinese legal system is a system based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People's Court. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited legal precedents. Since 1979, the PRC government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. Two examples are the promulgation of the Contract Law of the PRC to unify the various economic contract laws into a single code, which went into effect on October 1, 1999, and the Securities Law of the People's Republic of China, which went into effect on July 1, 1999. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS IN CHINA MAY BE INCONSISTENT. Although the Chinese government introduced new laws and regulations to modernize its securities and tax systems on January 1, 1994, China does not yet possess an expansive body of business law. As a result, the enforcement, interpretation and implementation of regulations may prove to be inconsistent and it may be difficult to enforce contracts. WE MAY EXPERIENCE LENGTHY DELAYS IN RESOLUTION OF LEGAL DISPUTES. As China has not developed a dispute resolution mechanism similar to the Western court system, dispute resolution over Chinese projects and joint ventures can be difficult and there is no assurance that any dispute involving our business in China can be resolved expeditiously and satisfactorily. CHINESE ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS AS WELL AS GOVERNMENT POLICIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. All of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange; and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, but growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures from time to time to control the rate of economic growth. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by: o changes in the rate or method of taxation; o imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad; o reduction in tariff or quota protection and other import restrictions; and o changes in the usage and costs of state-controlled transportation services. 13 FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE CHINESE RENMINBI RELATIVE TO FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Substantially all our revenues and expenses are denominated in the Chinese Renminbi. However, we use the United States dollar for financial reporting purposes. The value of Chinese Renminbi against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China's political and economic conditions. The Chinese government values the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just exclusively to the United States dollar. Although the Chinese government has stated its intention to support the value of the Chinese Renminbi, we cannot assure you that the government will not revalue it. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Chinese Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Chinese Renminbi would be reduced. To date, we have not engaged in any hedging transactions in connection with our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE LIQUIDITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS AFFECTED BY ITS LIMITED TRADING MARKET. Shares of our common stock are traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol "TBV". There is currently no broadly followed established trading market for our common stock. An established trading market may never develop or be maintained. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders. The absence of an active trading market reduces the liquidity of shares. The trading volume of our common stock historically has been limited and sporadic. As a result of this trading activity, the quoted price for our common stock is not necessarily a reliable indicator of its fair market value. Further, if we cease to be quoted, holders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock and the market value of our common stock likely would decline. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RELATING TO "PENNY STOCK". The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined in such regulations) of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock meets the definition of a penny stock, it will be subjected to these regulations, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. WE ARE MAJORITY OWNED BY ONE STOCKHOLDER. Our president and chief executive officer controls a majority of our common stock. Mr. Jinyuan Li beneficially owns approximately 92% of our outstanding common stocks. As a result, Mr. Li has the ability to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such change of control would benefit our other shareholders. 14 OUR COMMON STOCK WILL LIKELY BE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL PRICE AND VOLUME FLUCTUATIONS. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. In addition, there has been a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will be maintained. Such interest is necessary for an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. The price and trading volumes of our common stock may fluctuate widely due to the limited public market for our stock. SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY DILUTE AND DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. A significant number of our shares are eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144, and their sale could depress the market price of our stock. Some or all of the shares of common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for the shares of common stock. In general, a person who has held restricted shares for a period of one year may, upon filing with the SEC a notification on Form 144, sell into the market common stock in an amount equal to the greater of 1% of the outstanding shares or the average weekly number of shares sold in the last four weeks prior to such sale. Such sales may be repeated once each three months, and any of the restricted shares may be sold by a non-affiliate after they have been held two years. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, AND THE LACK OF DIVIDENDS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE STOCK PRICE. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 