ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our high concentration of real estate loans expose us to increased lending risks, especially in the event of a recession or natural disaster. Our loan portfolio is strongly concentrated in real estate loans. As of December 31, 2005, 66.3% of our loan portfolio was concentrated in real estate related loans. There has been a relatively rapid increase in real estate values in our market area in recent years, and the occurrence of a real estate recession affecting our market areas would likely reduce the security for many of our loans and adversely affect the ability of many of our borrowers to repay their loan from us. Therefore, our financial condition may be adversely affected by a decline in the value of the real estate securing our loans. In addition, acts of nature, including earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Deterioration of local economic conditions could hurt our profitability. Our operations are primarily located in Northern California and are concentrated in Plumas, Nevada, Placer, Lassen, Modoc, Shasta and Sierra Counties and surrounding areas. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. The local economy relies heavily on real estate, agriculture and ranching, timber and tourism. A significant downturn in any or all of these industries could result in a decline in the local economy in general, which could in turn negatively impact us. Poor economic conditions could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. Also, if there were significant recessionary conditions in our market area, our financial condition would be negatively impacted. Our growth and expansion strategy may not prove to be successful and our market value and profitability may suffer. We plan to grow our operations, however our ability to manage any such growth 16 Table of Contents will depend primarily on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, monitor operations, maintain earnings and control costs. We expect to continue to grow our assets and deposits, the products and services which we offer and the scale of our operations, generally. Our ability to manage our growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits on favorable terms. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, this rapid growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our future successful growth will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, credit, financial, management and other internal risk controls and processes and our reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in expected loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with growth. Thus, our growth strategy may divert management from our existing businesses and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Loss of any of our executive officers or key personnel could be damaging to us. We depend upon the skills and reputations of our executive officers and key employees for our future success. The loss of any of these key persons or the inability to attract and retain other key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract other qualified persons. All of our current executive officers have been with us since at least 2001. While we have an employment agreement with Douglas N. Biddle, our President and CEO, which contains an agreement not to compete following termination, we do not have employment agreements with our other executive officers and, therefore, upon leaving the employ of Plumas Bank, such executives other than Mr. Biddle may become employed by our competitors. Our performance is subject to interest rate risk. Our operations are significantly influenced by general economic conditions and by the related monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Deposit flows and the cost of funds are influenced by interest rates of competing investments and general market rates of interest. Lending activities are affected by the demand for loans, which in turn is affected by the interest rates at which such financing may be offered and by other factors affecting the availability of funds. Our operations are substantially dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received from our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities. To reduce exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we seek to manage the balances of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities, and maintain the maturity and repricing of these assets and liabilities at appropriate levels. A mismatch between the amount of rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities in any time period is referred to as a “gap”. Generally, if rate sensitive assets exceed rate sensitive liabilities, the net interest margin will be positively impacted during a rising rate environment and negatively impacted during a declining rate environment. When rate sensitive liabilities exceed rate sensitive assets, the net interest margin will generally be positively impacted during a declining rate environment and negatively impacted during a rising rate environment. Increases in the level of interest rates may reduce the amount of loans originated by us, and, thus, the amount of loan and commitment fees, as well as the value of our investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Moreover, fluctuations in interest rates also can result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from depository institutions into direct investments, such as corporate securities and other investment vehicles which, because of the absence of federal deposit insurance, generally pay higher rates of return than depository institutions. 17 Table of Contents We could experience loan losses which exceed our allowance for loan losses. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower, and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, we make various assumptions and determinations about the ultimate collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans where their collectibility is considered to be questionable. As of December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $3.3 million representing 1.01% of gross outstanding loans. Although we believe that this allowance is adequate, we can give no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future loan losses. Although we use the best information available to make our determinations with respect to this allowance, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions change substantially from the assumptions used or if negative developments occur with respect to non-performing or performing loans. If our assumptions or conclusions prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is not adequate to absorb future losses, or if bank regulatory agencies require us to increase our allowance, our earnings and potentially even our capital could be significantly and adversely impacted. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our operating results. In recent years, competition for bank customers, the source of deposits and loans, has greatly intensified. This competition includes: • larger national and regional banks in many of the communities we serve; • finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, and insurance companies that offer bank-like products; • credit unions, which can offer highly competitive rates on loans and deposits because they receive tax advantages not available to commercial banks; and • technology-based financial institutions including large national and super-regional banks offering on-line deposit, bill payment, and mortgage loan application services. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured financial institutions. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. By virtue of their larger capital, major banks have substantially larger lending limits then we have and can perform certain functions for their customers which we are not equipped to offer directly, such as trust and international services. Many of these also operate with “economies of scale” which result in lower operating costs than ours on a per loan or per asset basis. Other existing single or multi-branch community banks, or new community bank start-ups, have marketing strategies similar to ours. These other community banks can open new branches in the communities we serve and compete directly for customers who want the high level of service community banks offer. Other community banks also compete for the same management personnel and the same potential acquisition and merger candidates. Ultimately, competition can drive down our interest margins and reduce our 18 Table of Contents profitability, as well as make it more difficult to increase the size of our loan portfolio and deposit base. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – General - Competition. Our future growth may be hindered if we do not raise additional capital. Banks and bank holding companies are required to meet capital adequacy guidelines and maintain their capital to specified percentages of their assets. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Supervision and Regulation – Capital Standards. A failure to meet these guidelines will limit our ability to grow and could result in banking regulators requiring us to increase our capital or reduce our assets. Therefore, in order for us to continue to increase our assets and net income, we may be required from time to time to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that such capital will be available or, if it is, that it will be available on reasonable terms. Any such future capital raising may include the sale of additional securities, which could have a dilutive effect on the earnings per share and book value of per share for our stockholders prior to that offering. We have recently incurred long-term debt in order to maintain our capital adequacy and we may need to continue to do so in the future. Adequate funding sources for such borrowing may not be available in the future which would cause us to fall below the required capital ratios. In such an event, the FDIC could proceed with regulatory actions and Plumas Bank may be required to reduce its asset base in order to comply with the capital guidelines until such time as borrowings become available or an additional offering is successfully completed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No comments have been submitted to the registrant by the staff of the Securities Exchange Commission. 