Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategic direction, prospects and future results. Certain factors, including factors outside of our control, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. The following risk factors should be read in connection with evaluating our business and future prospects. All forward looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made. Such uncertainties include, among others, the following factors: The effect of economic pressures and other business factors The global economic crisis continues to cause a great deal of uncertainty. This market uncertainty continues to result in a lack of consumer confidence and spending. The success of our operations depends, to a significant extent, upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, housing, consumer debt, interest rates, increases in energy costs and consumer confidence. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be further negatively affected by general or local economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations and continued growth. Our ability to react to raw material cost increases, labor and energy prices Global inflationary economic conditions, as well as increases in our product costs, such as raw materials, labor and fuel, will reduce our overall profitability. Specifically, fluctuations in the price of cotton that is used in the manufacture of merchandise we purchase from our suppliers have begun to negatively impact our cost of goods. In addition, any reduction in merchandise available to us or any significant increase in the costs to produce that merchandise would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have strategies in place to mitigate the rising cost of raw materials and our overall profitability depends on the success of those strategies. Additionally, increases in other costs, including labor and energy, could adversely impact our results of operations as well. Our sales and operations may be adversely affected by unfavorable local, regional or national economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns and preferences. Various economic conditions affect the level of disposable income consumers have available to spend on the merchandise we offer including employment, interest rates, taxation, energy costs, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and general business conditions. Accordingly, consumer purchases of discretionary items and retail products, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods, and also may decline at other times when changes in consumer spending patterns affect us unfavorably. Therefore, our growth, sales and profitability may be adversely affected by economic conditions on a local, regional and/or national level. In addition, any significant decreases in shopping mall traffic could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to identify and respond to consumers’ fashion preferences, domestically and/or internationally, in a timely manner, our profitability would decline. We may not be able to keep pace with the rapidly changing fashion trends, both domestically and/or internationally, and consumer tastes inherent in the teen apparel industry. We produce casual, comfortable apparel, a majority of which displays the “Aéropostale”, “Aéro” or “P.S. from Aéropostale” logo. There can be no assurance that fashion trends will not move away from casual clothing or that we will not have to alter our design strategy to reflect changes in consumer preferences. Failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles, trends, desired images or brand preferences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which we are located. In order to generate customer traffic, we must locate our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls, or the success of individual shopping malls. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, the loss of an anchor or other significant tenant in a shopping mall in which we have a store, or the closure of a significant number of shopping malls in which we have stores, either by a single landlord with a large portfolio of malls, or by a number of smaller individual landlords, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations may cause the price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: • actions of our competitors or mall anchor tenants; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • fashion trends; • changes in our merchandise mix; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • the timing of promotional events; and • weather conditions. If our comparable store sales fail to meet the expectations of investors, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. You should refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. A significant decrease in sales during peak shopping seasons could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our net sales and net income are disproportionately higher from August through January each year due to increased sales from back-to-school and holiday shopping. Sales during this period cannot be used as an accurate indicator for our annual results. Our net sales and net income from February through July are typically lower due to, in part, the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the winter holiday season. Any significant decrease in sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry during other parts of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, our business is also subject, at certain times, to calendar shifts which may occur during key selling times such as school holidays, Easter and regional fluctuations in the calendar during the back-to-school selling season. 11 Table of Contents Our continued expansion plan is dependent on a number of factors which, if not implemented, could delay or prevent the successful opening of new stores and our entry into new markets. Unless we continue to do the following, we may be unable to open new stores successfully and, in turn, our continued growth would be impaired: • identify suitable markets and sites for new store locations; • negotiate acceptable lease terms; • hire, train and retain competent store personnel; • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise; • manage inventory and distribution effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • expand our infrastructure to accommodate growth; and • generate sufficient operating cash flows or secure adequate capital on commercially reasonable terms to fund our expansion plans. There are a finite number of suitable locations and malls within the United States and Canada in which to locate our stores. If we are unable to locate additional suitable locations to open new stores successfully and/or enter new markets, then there will be an adverse effect on the rate of our revenue and earnings growth. We rely on a small number of vendors to supply a significant amount of our merchandise. During fiscal 2010, we sourced approximately 85% of our merchandise from our top five merchandise vendors. During fiscal 2009, we sourced approximately 81% of our merchandise from our top five merchandise vendors. Our relationships with our suppliers generally are not on a long-term contractual basis and do not provide assurances on a long-term basis as to adequate supply, quality or acceptable pricing. Most of our suppliers could discontinue selling to us at any time. If one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not own or operate any of our own manufacturing facilities and therefore we depend upon independent third party vendors to manufacture all of the merchandise we sell in our stores. If any of our vendors, especially our primary vendors which manufacture the majority of our merchandise, ship orders to us late, do not meet our quality standards, or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, then there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores. The large majority of the merchandise we purchase is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts with our vendors and the imports of our merchandise by our vendors are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at foreign and United States ports, which could delay delivery of goods; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of additional or greater duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of our vendors to comply with applicable import regulations; and (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to unexpected or significant port congestion or labor unrest at United States ports. Any disruption to our vendors and our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above or due to other unforeseeable events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Failure of new business concepts would have a negative effect on our results of operations. We expect that the introduction of new brand concepts, such as the launch in fiscal 2009 of our new store brand concept P.S. from Aéropostale, as well as other new business opportunities, such as international expansion, will play an important role in our overall growth strategy. Our ability to succeed with a new brand concept requires significant expenditures and management attention. Additionally, any new brand is subject to certain risks including customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including management and designers, diversion of management’s attention from our core Aéropostale business and the ability to obtain suitable sites for new stores. Our experience with our Jimmy’Z brand, which we have now closed, demonstrates that there can be no assurance that new brands will grow or become profitable. Our business could suffer if a manufacturer fails to use acceptable labor practices. Our sourcing agents and independent manufacturers are required to operate in compliance with all applicable foreign and domestic laws and regulations. While our vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices for our vendors and suppliers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer, or by one of the sourcing agents, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or sourcing agent’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To help mitigate this risk, we engage a third party independent contractor to visit the production facilities from which we receive our products. This independent contractor assesses the compliance of the facility with, among other things, local and United States labor laws and regulations as well as foreign and domestic fair trade and business practices. The unexpected loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our key executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in the retail industry and have made significant contributions to the growth and success of our brands. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect us. Specifically, if we were to unexpectedly lose the services of Thomas P. Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer, or Michael J. Cunningham, our President, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, departures of any other senior executives or key performers in the Company could also adversely affect our operations. A substantial interruption in our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the security and integrity of electronic data and our management information systems for many aspects of our business. We may be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or compromised or we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our management information systems. We rely on third parties to manage our distribution centers and transport our merchandise to our stores; a disruption of our distribution activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to distribute, in a timely manner, our merchandise to our store locations throughout the United States and Canada. We currently lease and maintain two, third party, independently operated distribution facilities, one in South River, New Jersey, and the other in Ontario, California. These distribution centers manage, collectively, the receipt, storage, sortation, packaging and distribution of virtually all of our merchandise. In addition, we also utilize a third distribution center, located in Canada, which is independently owned and operated. These third parties employ personnel represented by labor unions. Although there have been no work stoppages or disruptions since the inception of our relationships with these third party providers, there can be no assurance that work stoppages or disruptions will not occur in the future. We also use separate third party transportation companies to deliver our merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores. Any failure by any of these third parties to respond adequately to our warehousing, distribution and transportation needs would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the NYSE. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. We rely on a third party to manage the web-hosting, operation, warehousing and order fulfillment for our e-commerce business; any disruption of these activities could have a material adverse effect on our e-commerce business. We rely on one third party, GSI Commerce, Inc. (“GSI”), to host our e-commerce website, warehouse all of the inventory sold through our e-commerce website, and fulfill all of our e-commerce sales to our customers. GSI also performs additional services for us supporting our e-commerce business. Any significant interruption in the operations of GSI, over which we have no control, could have a material adverse effect on our e-commerce business. Failure to protect our trademarks adequately could negatively impact our brand image and limit our ability to penetrate new markets. We believe that our key trademarks AÉROPOSTALE®, AERO® and 87® and our new store concept brand, P.S. FROM AÉROPOSTALE™ and variations thereof, are integral to our logo-driven design strategy. We have obtained federal registrations of or have pending applications for these trademarks in the United States and have applied for or obtained registrations in most foreign countries in which our vendors are located, as well as elsewhere. We use these trademarks in many constantly changing designs and logos even though we have not applied to register every variation or combination thereof for adult clothing and related accessories. There can be no assurance that the registrations we own and have obtained will prevent the imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others. If any third party imitates our products in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation, our brand image could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that others will not try to block the manufacture, export or sale of our products as a violation of their trademarks or other proprietary rights. Other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain portions of our marks or may have registered similar or competing marks for apparel and accessories in foreign countries in which our vendors are located. There may also be other prior registrations in other foreign countries of which we are not aware. Accordingly, it may not be possible, in those few foreign countries where we were not able to register our marks, to enjoin the manufacture, sale or exportation of AÉROPOSTALE or P.S. FROM AÉROPOSTALE branded goods to the United States. If we were unable to reach a licensing arrangement with these parties, our vendors may be unable to manufacture our products in those countries. Our inability to register our trademarks or purchase or license the right to use our trademarks or logos in these jurisdictions could limit our ability to obtain supplies from or manufacture in less costly markets or penetrate new markets should our business plan change to include selling our merchandise in those jurisdictions outside the United States. The effects of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other unforeseen wide-scale events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and the associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism has disrupted commerce and has intensified uncertainties in the U.S. economy. Any further acts of terrorism or a future war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales revenue by causing consumer spending and/or mall traffic to decline. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any other natural disaster that results in unforeseen interruptions of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from our vendors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 