Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report, as well as general economic and business risks, together with any other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.Risks Related to Our Business and StrategyOur ability to successfully execute our strategy is dependent on our achieving greater market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test.Our ability to generate revenue depends on our successful marketing of the NMR LipoProfile test. The NMR LipoProfile test accounted for 96% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, 94% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 93% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. We expect that our revenues and profitability will depend on sales of the NMR LipoProfile test for the foreseeable future.There is not currently widespread awareness of the NMR LipoProfile test among clinicians, even though the test has been available since 1999. In order to achieve greater market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test, we must continue to demonstrate to clinicians, other healthcare professionals, clinical diagnostic laboratories, healthcare thought leaders and third-party payors that the test is a clinically useful and cost-effective diagnostic test and disease management tool for cardiovascular disease risk providing improved or additional benefits over traditional cholesterol testing, which has been widely accepted as effective for managing cardiovascular risk for many years.When seeking testing and management recommendations for coronary heart disease, or CHD, many physicians and other clinicians look to clinical guidelines and recommendations published by influential organizations. Such organizations include the National Cholesterol Education Program, or NCEP, an authority on cholesterol management overseen by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, or NHLBI, part of the National Institutes of Health, American Association of Clinical Endocrinologist (AACE) and the American Heart Association, or AHA. The NMR LipoProfile test is not currently included in guidelines published by NCEP or the AHA. In November 12, 2013, the AHA and American College of Cardiology (ACC) Task Force on Practice Guidelines published the 2013 ACC/AHA guideline on the treatment of blood cholesterol to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular risk in adults. The new ACC/AHA guideline emphasizes treating specific patient groups with statin therapy, based solely on cardiovascular events noted in randomized controlled trials (RCT) of drug therapies. Since RCT data used in this new guideline did not contain information regarding the value of treating patients to specific LDL goals, the ACC/AHA expert panel did not endorse a specific LDL target for treatment. At this time, it is not known whether the content of the guidelines will adversely affect the use of the NMR LipoProfile test or coverage by the payors for the test given the substantial changes relative to prior guidelines. If we are not successful in our strategy of gaining inclusion in the guidelines published by these or other organizations, it could ultimately limit market adoption of the NMR LipoProfile test.Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, and current or future studies may question the utility of LDL-P testing or suggest new approaches or technologies that may be more beneficial to patient care than our current tests or the tests that we may develop in the future. In such cases, it could make it more difficult to persuade clinicians, payors and publishers of clinical guidelines of the utility of our NMR LipoProfile test and other tests that we may develop in the future compared to existing tests or new approaches or technologies.22Table of ContentsA small number of clinical diagnostic laboratory customers account for most of the sales of our NMR LipoProfile test. If any of these laboratories orders fewer tests from us for any reason, our revenues could decline.For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we generated 90%, 84% and 76% of our revenues, respectively, from clinical diagnostic laboratory customers. Sales to one of these laboratories, Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc., accounted for 33%, 32% and 21% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to a second laboratory customer, LabCorp, accounted for 30%, 29% and 33% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Our current agreements with our laboratory customers do not require them to purchase any minimum quantities of the NMR LipoProfile test. In addition, these customers generally have the right to terminate their respective agreements with us at any time. If any major customer were to terminate its relationship with us, or to substantially diminish its purchases of the NMR LipoProfile test, our revenues could significantly decline or it could adversely impact our revenue growth, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.In mid-March 2014, HDL Inc. announced its own LDL-P test and began making the test available to its customers. We believe our NMR LipoProfile test has significant advantages over HDL Inc.'s non-FDA cleared test and that it is critical that physicians are able to differentiate with certainty which test result they are receiving. We plan to aggressively market to physicians the advantages of our NMR LipoProfile test, the only FDA-cleared test that quantifies the number of LDL-P, versus the HDL Inc. laboratory-developed test (LDT) that has not demonstrated clinical efficacy nor undergone the rigor of an FDA-clearance process. Accordingly, on March 28, 2014, we notified HDL Inc. that we were terminating our agreement with HDL Inc. effective June 26, 2014. Over time, we believe that we will be able to mitigate the effects of loss of revenues from HDL Inc. through our relationships with other national, regional and local labs and by alerting physicians to use clinical laboratory customers that offer the FDA-cleared NMR LipoProfile test. However, in the short and medium term, we expect our revenues to be impacted negatively, potentially significantly so.We have incurred losses and anticipate incurring continuing losses. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $60.5 million. We anticipate experiencing losses for the next few years as we incur additional expenses related to our research and development programs, our sales and marketing efforts, and our general and administrative expenses. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in increasing sales of our NMR LipoProfile test and/or develop and commercialize new tests with significant market potential, and place the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are sufficient to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain consistently profitable would likely depress the market price of our common stock and could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue to pursue our business strategy.If we do not establish relationships with additional clinical diagnostic laboratories, we may not be able to increase the number of NMR LipoProfile tests we sell.A significant element of our strategy is to leverage relationships with clinical diagnostic laboratories to increase market acceptance of the NMR LipoProfile test and gain market share. Most clinicians who request traditional cholesterol tests, our NMR LipoProfile test and other diagnostic tests to evaluate cardiovascular disease risk order these tests through clinical diagnostic laboratories.If we are unable to establish relationships with additional clinical diagnostic laboratories, clinicians who order tests through these laboratories may be unwilling or unable to order our NMR LipoProfile test. In addition, we would not have the benefit of leveraging the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of these laboratories, which we believe is important to our ability to increase awareness of and expand utilization of the NMR LipoProfile test. As a result, if we are unable to establish additional clinical laboratory relationships, our ability to increase sales of our NMR LipoProfile test and to successfully execute our strategy could be compromised.23Table of ContentsWe will need to optimize our marketing and sales capabilities in order to increase demand for our NMR LipoProfile test, to expand geographically and to successfully commercialize any other personalized diagnostic tests we may develop.In 2013, our sales force expansion did not result in the growth we previously anticipated. We believe our current sales and marketing operations must improve in order to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required for us to attain significant commercial success for our NMR LipoProfile test, to expand our geographic presence and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests we may develop. We have limited experience in placing and servicing the Vantera system in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories for commercial purposes. We may also face competition from other companies in the industry in which we operate, some of whom are much larger than us and who can pay significantly greater compensation and benefits than we can, in seeking to attract and retain qualified sales and marketing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel on a timely basis, or at all, our business will suffer.Furthermore, in order to successfully commercialize diagnostic tests that we may develop in the future, we may need to conduct lengthy, expensive clinical trials and develop dedicated sales and marketing operations to achieve market awareness and demand. If we are not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales and commercialization strategies, we may not be able to increase sales of our NMR LipoProfile test, to expand geographically or to successfully commercialize any future diagnostic tests that we may develop.The diagnostic and pharmaceutical industries feature changing technology and other innovations that could make our current test or the tests we are developing obsolete or less competitive unless we continue to develop and manufacture new and improved tests and pursue new market opportunities.The diagnostic and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of our expertise or in areas that have unproven market demand, and the utility and value of new tests that we develop may not be accepted in the market. Our inability to gain market acceptance of new tests could harm our future operating results. Further, if new research or clinical evidence or economic comparative evidence arises that supports a different marker for CHD risk, demand for our test could decline.Our NMR LipoProfile test competes with other diagnostic testing methods that may be more widely available than our test.The clinical diagnostics market is highly competitive, and we must be able to compete effectively against existing and future competitors in order to be successful. In selling our NMR LipoProfile test, we compete primarily with existing diagnostic, detection and monitoring technologies, particularly the conventional lipid panel test, which is relatively inexpensive, widely reimbursed and broadly accepted as an effective test for managing the risk of developing cardiovascular disease. We also compete against companies that offer other methods for directly or indirectly measuring cholesterol concentrations, lipoproteins or lipoprotein particles. It is possible that other competing tests could be perceived by clinicians as more cost-effective than our test in providing information useful in managing CHD risk. In addition, some competitors offering these competing technologies may have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, distribution and public relations resources than we have. They may also have more experience in research and development, regulatory matters, manufacturing and marketing than we do, and may have established broad third-party reimbursement for their tests. If we do not compete successfully, we will not be able to increase our market share and our business will be seriously harmed.Even though the Vantera system has received regulatory clearance in the United States, if laboratories are not receptive to placement of the Vantera system at their facilities, or if we do not receive regulatory clearance of the Vantera system in other jurisdictions, our growth strategy may not be successful.An element of our strategy is to place the Vantera system, our next-generation automated clinical NMR analyzer, on site with certain selected clinical diagnostic laboratory customers to broaden access to our technology and increase demand for our NMR LipoProfile test and any future diagnostic tests that we may develop. Although we received clearance from the FDA to perform the FDA-cleared measurements of the NMR LipoProfile test using the Vantera system in August 2012, we may not receive regulatory clearance for the commercial use of the Vantera system in other countries on a timely basis, or at all. Even though the Vantera clinical analyzer is cleared by the FDA, clinical diagnostic laboratories may be unwilling or unable to accept the placement of the Vantera system for any reason, or these laboratories may not be satisfied with the Vantera system after it is placed in their facilities. If clinical diagnostic laboratories do not accept the placement of the Vantera system in their facilities, our ability to grow our business by deploying the Vantera system could be compromised.24Table of ContentsWe rely on two key suppliers for the components used in the Vantera system. If we were to lose either of these suppliers, our ability to broadly place the Vantera system could be compromised.We currently rely on a single supplier, Agilent Technologies, Inc., for the magnet, probe and console incorporated in the Vantera system. These are the key components of the analyzers necessary to perform our NMR LipoProfile test. We are party to a supply agreement with Agilent pursuant to which we have agreed to exclusively purchase all of our NMR-related components from them. We are also party to a production agreement with KMC Systems, Inc. under which KMC is our exclusive manufacturer of the sample handler and shell for the Vantera system.We are currently aware of only one other primary supplier of NMR spectrometers. In the event it is necessary or desirable to acquire NMR spectrometers from another supplier, we might not be able to obtain them on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. It could also require significant time and expense to redesign our current analyzers or the Vantera system to work with the spectrometers provided by another company.If we are unable to obtain the NMR components we need at a reasonable price or on a timely basis, we may be unable to maintain the analyzers we use in our facility to perform our NMR LipoProfile test, which could compromise our ability to meet our customers' orders for the test. Likewise, if the components or any other part of the Vantera system are not available when needed, we may not be able to place the Vantera system broadly, which could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy.If we do not successfully develop or acquire and introduce new personalized diagnostic tests or other applications of our technology, we may not generate new sources of revenue and may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy.Our business strategy includes the acquisition, development and introduction of new clinical diagnostic applications of our NMR-based technology in addition to our NMR LipoProfile test. Additionally, we believe that for our Vantera system to be attractive to laboratories to place in their facilities, it may be necessary for us to offer additional tests for use on the Vantera system. All of our diagnostic tests under development will require significant additional research and development, a commitment of significant additional resources and possibly costly and time-consuming clinical testing prior to their commercialization. Our technology is complex, and we cannot be sure that any tests under development will be developed successfully, be proven to be effective, offer diagnostic or other improvements over currently available tests, meet applicable regulatory standards, be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed.We may also in the future seek to acquire complementary products or technologies from third parties. Integrating any product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time-consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any tests or technologies effectively, we may not be able to implement our business model. If we do not successfully develop new clinical diagnostic applications of our NMR-based technology or acquire complementary diagnostic products, we could lose interest from academic medical centers and could also lose revenue opportunities with existing or future clinical laboratory customers.Our transition to a new chief executive officer could be disruptive to our business, and our inability to attract, hire or retain other key personnel could also slow our growth and prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy. On January 22, 2014, we announced that Howard B. Doran was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the board of directors, effective February 3, 2014. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or a disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in key officers and employees. If we cannot effectively transition Mr. Greczyn's interim President and Chief Executive Officer's roles and responsibilities to Mr. Doran, it could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals.25Table of ContentsIn addition to the transition of our Chief Executive Officer position, our future success depends to a significant extent on the skills, experience and continued efforts of the rest of our senior management team, including Lucy Martindale, our Chief Financial Officer, James Otvos, our Chief Scientific Officer and founder, Timothy Fischer, our Chief Operating Officer, and Thomas Clement, our Vice President of Regulatory and Quality Affairs. The loss of services of any or all of these individuals, or other management personnel, could harm our business, could divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements, and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these individuals and with our other executives. The existence of an employment agreement does not, however, guarantee retention of these employees, and we may not be able to retain those individuals for the duration of or beyond the end of their respective terms. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our management personnel. Our future success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled sales and marketing, regulatory, scientific and laboratory personnel. In particular, our growth strategy is predicated on significantly expanding the size of our direct sales force. However, competition for qualified sales, regulatory and technical personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms. If we are unable to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified personnel that our business needs, it could seriously harm our reputation, key customer relationships and potential revenue growth, could result in the loss of key information, expertise or know-how and could cause us to incur unanticipated recruitment and training costs. To the extent that we hire personnel from competitors, we may also be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited or divulged proprietary or other confidential information.If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business will be harmed.During the past several years, we have significantly expanded our operations. Our growth has placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operating and financial systems and our sales, marketing and administrative resources. As a result of our growth, our operating costs may escalate even faster than planned, and some of our internal systems may need to be enhanced or replaced. If we cannot effectively manage our expanding operations and our costs, we may not be able to continue to grow or we may grow at a slower pace and our business could be adversely affected.We currently perform our tests predominantly in one laboratory facility. If this or any future facility or our equipment were damaged or destroyed, or if we experience a significant disruption in our operations for any reason, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially harmed.We currently perform our NMR LipoProfile tests predominantly in a single laboratory facility in Raleigh, North Carolina. If this or any future facility were to be damaged, destroyed or otherwise unable to operate, whether due to fire, floods, hurricanes, storms, tornadoes, other natural disasters, employee malfeasance, terrorist acts, power outages, or otherwise, or if performance of our analyzers is disrupted for any other reason, we may not be able to perform our tests or generate test reports as promptly as our customers expect, or possibly not at all. If we are unable to perform our tests or generate test reports within a timeframe that meets our customers' expectations, our business, financial results and reputation could be materially harmed.Currently, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $12 million against damage to our property and equipment and an additional $10 million to cover business interruption and research and development restoration expenses, subject to deductibles and other limitations. If we have underestimated our insurance needs with respect to an interruption, or if an interruption is not subject to coverage under our insurance policies, we may not be able to cover our losses.26Table of ContentsFailure in our information technology, storage systems or our clinical analyzers, including the Vantera system, could significantly disrupt our operations and our research and development efforts, which could adversely impact our revenues, as well as our research, development and commercialization efforts.Our ability to execute our business strategy depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, or IT, systems, which support our operations and our research and development efforts, as well as our storage systems and our clinical analyzers, including the Vantera system. Due to the sophisticated nature of the NMR technology we use in our testing, we are substantially dependent on our IT systems. IT systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our NMR analyzers, including any Vantera system placed in third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Any interruption in the operation of our NMR analyzers, due to IT system failures, part failures or potential disruptions in the event we are required to relocate our analyzers within our facility or to another facility, or failures of the Vantera system within the facilities of third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories, could have an adverse effect on our operations.We rely on courier delivery services to transport samples to our facility for analysis. If these delivery services are disrupted, our business and customer satisfaction could be negatively impacted.Clinicians and clinical laboratories ship samples to us by air and ground express courier delivery service for analysis in our Raleigh, North Carolina facility. Disruptions in delivery service, whether due to bad weather, natural disaster, terrorist acts or threats, or for other reasons, can adversely affect specimen quality and our ability to provide our services on a timely basis to customers.Our business involves the use of hazardous materials that could expose us to environmental and other liabilities.Our laboratory facility is subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, biological materials and various compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to our employees and third parties from hazardous materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances other than limited clean-up expense coverage for environmental contamination due to an otherwise insured peril, such as fire.If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition or reputation.Diagnostic testing entails the risk of product liability, and we may be exposed to liability claims arising from the use of our tests. We maintain product liability insurance that is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and is in an amount that we believe to be reasonable. We cannot be certain, however, that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to liability. As a result, we may be required to pay all or a portion of any successfully asserted product liability claim out of our cash reserves. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to avoid significant product liability claims, which could hurt our reputation and our financial condition.27Table of ContentsWe may use third-party collaborators to help us develop, validate or commercialize any new diagnostic tests, and our ability to commercialize such tests could be impaired or delayed if these collaborations are unsuccessful.We may license or selectively pursue strategic collaborations for the development, validation and commercialization of any new diagnostic tests we may develop. In any third-party collaboration, we would be dependent upon the success of the collaborators in performing their responsibilities and their continued cooperation. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us or perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators' resources that will be devoted to performing their responsibilities under our agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. The development, validation and commercialization of our potential tests will be delayed if collaborators fail to conduct their responsibilities in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements or if they breach or terminate their collaboration agreements with us. Disputes with our collaborators could also impair our reputation or result in development delays, decreased revenues and litigation expenses.Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our company and have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. As a public company, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future.If we fail to comply with the covenants and other obligations under our credit facility, the lenders may be able to accelerate amounts owed under the facility and may foreclose upon the assets securing our obligations.In December 2012, we entered into a credit facility with Oxford Finance and Square 1. The facility consists of a total of $16 million in term loans and a $6 million revolving line of credit. The term loans are payable in monthly installments of interest only through January 2015 and then principal and interest thereafter in monthly installments through July 2017. The line of credit matures in February 2015. Borrowings under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our tangible assets. The covenants set forth in the loan and security agreement require, among other things, that we maintain a specified liquidity ratio, measured monthly, that begins at 1.25 and is reduced to 1.0 over the term of the facility. Our liquidity ratio was approximately 4.8 as of December 31, 2013. The covenants also require that we maintain a minimum trailing 12 month revenue level for 2014, measured monthly, that begins at $50 million and is reduced to $45 million by the end of 2014. We are currently in compliance with all covenants under this credit facility, as modified. However, if we fail to comply with the covenants and our other obligations under the credit facility, the lenders would be able to accelerate the required repayment of amounts due under the loan agreement and, if they are not repaid, could foreclose upon our assets securing our obligations under the credit facility.28Table of ContentsWe may need to raise additional capital to meet our financial obligations and to pursue our business objectives, and if we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may have to curtail or cease operations.We cannot assure you that the proceeds of our recent IPO will be sufficient to fully fund our business and growth strategy. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing to continue to fund our operations.Our actual liquidity and capital funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including:•the extent to which our tests, including the NMR LipoProfile test and other tests under development, are successfully developed, gain regulatory clearance and market acceptance and become and remain competitive;•our ability to obtain more extensive medical policy coverage for our tests, and our ability to effectively manage and control the pricing we receive from third-party clinical laboratories for our tests;•our ability to collect our accounts receivable;•the costs and timing of further optimization of our sales and marketing activities and research and development activities; and•the timing and results of any regulatory approvals that we are required to obtain for our diagnostic tests.If we seek to raise additional capital in order to meet various objectives, including developing future diagnostic tests, increasing working capital and responding to competitive pressures, that capital may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit facility, we may be restricted from using the net proceeds of financing transactions for our operating objectives. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Furthermore, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute your ownership interest in us and may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the terms of the financing may adversely affect your holdings or rights. Debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants.If we are not able to obtain adequate funding when needed, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our diagnostic tests or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize ourselves. We also may have to reduce research and development, sales and marketing, customer support or other expenses. Any of these outcomes could harm our business.Our net operating loss carryforwards may expire unutilized or underutilized, which could prevent us from offsetting future taxable income.We may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2013, our available federal net operating losses, or NOLs, and federal research and development tax credits totaled $48.3 million. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income. We believe that we have had one or more ownership changes, as a result of which our existing NOLs are currently subject to limitation. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382. We are unable to predict the future ownership and other variables considered by, and elections available pursuant to, Section 382 for determining the usability of our net operating losses. We may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs, even if we attain profitability.Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline.We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net income (loss) and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:•our ability to execute on our strategy to convert clinicians, and the clinical diagnostic laboratories they use, from using traditional cholesterol testing to using our NMR LipoProfile test for the management of patients at risk for CHD;•the addition of new clinical diagnostic laboratory customers or the loss of existing customers;•our ability to successfully place the Vantera system at clinical diagnostic laboratories;•changes in our pricing structures or the pricing structures of our competitors;29Table of Contents•our ability to obtain and maintain third-party reimbursement for our NMR LipoProfile test and any other tests that we may develop;•variations in the level of expenses related to our research and development efforts as well as sales force expansion;•changes in the governmental regulation of diagnostic tests;•our compliance with the rules and regulations established by relevant governmental and taxing authorities;•our ability to develop, introduce and market any new future assays on a timely basis, or at all; and•changes in our overall business strategy.Many of these factors are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts. If this happens, even just temporarily, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.Risks Related to Billing, Coverage and Reimbursement for Our TestsHealth insurers and other third-party payors may decide not to cover, or may discontinue reimbursing, our NMR LipoProfile test or any other diagnostic tests we may develop in the future, or they may provide inadequate reimbursement, which could jeopardize our ability to expand our business and achieve profitability.Our business is impacted by the level of reimbursement for our NMR LipoProfile test from third-party payors. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare. CMS currently covers our NMR LipoProfile test, although the reimbursement payment level under CMS fee schedules may change from time to time. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased at times and may decrease more in the future. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage or adequate reimbursement will be obtained. We cannot predict whether or when third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement to make them commercially attractive. Clinicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. If CMS or other third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests, place significant restrictions on the use of our tests, or offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited and our business could be materially adversely affected. Payors may stop paying for out test for laboratories that are out-of-network. Certain payors have recently begun asking physicians not to use out of network services due to the typically higher costs and instead use in-network laboratory services. In addition, relative to laws requiring that laboratories bill co-pays and deductibles on tests directly to patients, the level of enforcement varies among states, with some states aggressively enforcing such laws. Additionally some payors are revising their medical policies to specifically decline coverage for certain test panels offered by out-of-network laboratories for cardiovascular risk assessment. The NMR LipoProfile test has been incorporated in some of these panels and potentially such revisions could result in decreased utilization by physicians.Billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our tests may negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability.Billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex. In cases where we do not receive a fixed fee per test performed from a laboratory customer, we perform tests in advance of payment and without certainty as to the outcome of the billing process. In cases where we do receive a fixed fee per test from a laboratory customer, we may still have disputes over pricing and billing. We or our laboratory customers receive payment from individual patients and from a variety of payors, such as commercial insurance carriers, including managed care organizations and governmental programs, primarily Medicare. Each payor typically has different billing requirements, and the billing requirements of many payors have become increasingly stringent.30Table of ContentsAmong the factors complicating our billing of third-party payors are:•disputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment;•disparity in coverage among various payors;•disparity in information and billing requirements among payors; and•incorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the prescribing physician.Billing by third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories that are considering the placement of the Vantera system in their facilities is also complex. These billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect the rate of adoption of the Vantera system and the NMR LipoProfile test, which would cause our revenues, cash flow and profitability, to suffer. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our NMR LipoProfile test.Recent political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, which may have far-reaching consequences for most healthcare companies, including diagnostic companies like us. While the goal of healthcare reform is to expand coverage to more individuals, it also involves increased government price controls, additional regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, all of which impact the medical device industry. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These restructuring changes in the coverage of medical care in the United States, including new and more complex measures to regulate health care delivery and clinical laboratories, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for diagnostic tests like ours. If reimbursement for our diagnostic tests and any other diagnostic tests that we may develop is substantially less than we or our clinical laboratory customers expect, or our rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs may compromise our ability to set prices at commercially attractive levels for the NMR LipoProfile test and other diagnostic tests that we may develop. Changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially diminish the sale of or inhibit the utilization of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management's attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve consistent profitability. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in lower reimbursement for our NMR LipoProfile test, and ultimately, reduced utilization for our test or additional pricing pressure.Risks Related to Our Proprietary TechnologyOur NMR LipoProfile test and the Vantera system have limited patent protection, and future personalized diagnostic tests that we may develop may also have limited patent protection. As a result, our intellectual property position may not adequately protect us from competitors for sales of our NMR LipoProfile test, the Vantera system or any future diagnostic tests we may develop.A significant amount of our technology, especially regarding algorithmic processes used in the NMR LipoProfile test, is unpatented. Additionally, some of the technology used in our Vantera system is unpatented. As a result, we are dependent to a significant degree upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We also rely on copyrights and trademarks and confidentiality, licenses and invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights, as well as, to a more limited extent, patents.31Table of ContentsIn an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements may not, however, provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and these agreements may be breached. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. A breach of confidentiality could significantly affect our competitive position. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.The patent covering elements of our NMR LipoProfile test that we previously licensed from North Carolina State University expired in August 2011. The U.S. patent we previously licensed from Siemens Medical Systems expired in 2008. We also own or co-own with exclusive license rights a number of U.S. patents and patent applications. The claims of the issued U.S. patents owned by or licensed to us, and the claims of any patents that may issue in the future and be owned by or licensed to us, may not confer on us significant commercial protection against competing diagnostic products. Third parties may challenge, narrow, invalidate or circumvent any patents we own or license currently or in the future. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. Further, because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential diagnostic product, it is possible that any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we file for patent protection relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may preclude issuance of patents or may not protect our patent rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States.We also hold copyrights, including copyright registrations, on documentation and software for our NMR LipoProfile test and have a number of registered and unregistered trademarks, including a trademark for Vantera. These copyrights and trademarks may not, however, provide competitive advantages for us, and our competitors may challenge or circumvent these copyrights and trademarks. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect these types of proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.NMR spectroscopy technology, which we use in performing our NMR analyses, is not proprietary and is known in the scientific community generally, and it is possible to duplicate the methods we use to perform our diagnostic tests. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing diagnostic products that do not infringe our intellectual property.If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be harmed.Our research, development and commercialization activities, including our current NMR LipoProfile test and our NMR-based technology platform, as well as any other diagnostic test resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents owned by other parties. There may also be patent applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued, could be asserted against us. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the diagnostic product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit.As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek licenses from third parties. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.32Table of ContentsThere has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical diagnostics industry. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference, derivation or post-grant proceedings declared or granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and similar proceedings in foreign countries, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our current or future diagnostic tests or devices. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace.We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive and time-consuming.Competitors may infringe our intellectual property, including our patents or the patents of our licensors. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to stop third-party infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patent claims do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or other proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.Interference, derivation or other proceedings brought at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our licensors or collaborators. Litigation or USPTO proceedings brought by us may fail or may be invoked against us by third parties. Even if we are successful, domestic or foreign litigation or USPTO or foreign patent office proceedings may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our licensors or collaborators, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States.Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or other proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation or proceedings. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation or proceedings, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments or public access to related documents. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed.Risks Related to Government Regulation of Our Diagnostic Tests If we are unable to comply with the requirements of the Clinical Laboratories Improvement Amendments of 1988 and state laws governing clinical laboratories or if we are required to expend significant additional resources to comply with these requirements, the success of our business could be threatened.HHS has classified our NMR LipoProfile test as a high-complexity test under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. Under CLIA, personnel requirements for laboratories conducting high-complexity tests are more stringent than those applicable to laboratories performing less complex tests. If we fail to meet CLIA requirements, HHS or state agencies could require us to cease our NMR LipoProfile testing or other testing subject to CLIA that we may develop in the future. Even if it were possible for us to bring our laboratory back into compliance, we could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenues in doing so. Moreover, new interpretations of current regulations or future changes in regulations under CLIA may make it difficult or impossible for us to comply with our CLIA classification, which would significantly harm our business.Many states in which our physician and laboratory clients are located, such as New York, have laws and regulations governing clinical laboratories that are more stringent than federal law and may apply to us even if we are not located, and do not perform our NMR LipoProfile test, in that state. We may also be subject to additional licensing requirements as we expand our sales and operations into new geographic areas, which could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy.33Table of ContentsPortions of our NMR LipoProfile test are subject to the FDA's exercise of enforcement discretion, and any changes to the FDA's policies with respect to this exercise of enforcement discretion could hurt our business.Clinical laboratory tests that are developed and validated by a laboratory for its own use are called laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs. The laws and regulations governing the marketing of diagnostic products for use as LDTs are extremely complex and in many instances there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws. For instance, while the FDA maintains that LDTs are subject to the FDA's authority as diagnostic medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, the FDA has generally exercised enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable regulations with respect to most tests performed by CLIA-certified laboratories.We have obtained, FDA clearance for several of the measurements we report as part of the NMR LipoProfile test, specifically LDL-P, HDL-C and triglycerides, in order to support our strategy of decentralizing access to the test, which will be helpful in order to make our test commercially available for other laboratories to perform and to report patient results. The remainder of the results reported as part of our NMR LipoProfile test, including HDL-P, small LDL-P and LDL size, as well as a number of lipoprotein markers associated with insulin resistance and diabetes risk, are LDTs and we include them in our report on this basis.When the Vantera system is placed in third-party laboratories, if they elect to report these non-FDA cleared test results to their customers, we will generate the test results in our clinical laboratory using either NMR spectrum data digitally sent to us by the third-party laboratory or a portion of the original blood sample that they send to us. This division of LDT data collection and reporting of test results has not been endorsed or approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies, and there can be no assurance that the FDA will continue to regard these as LDTs. Additionally, there can be no assurance that third-party laboratories will accept this division of LDT data collection and reporting of test results, which could negatively affect the rate of adoption of the Vantera system and the NMR LipoProfile test, and accordingly, our revenues, cash flows and profitability.The regulation of diagnostic tests classified as LDTs may become more stringent in the future. The FDA continues to have on-going dialogue with industry representatives regarding its current policy of enforcement discretion and has been drafting an oversight framework for LDTs. We cannot predict the extent of the FDA's future regulation and policies with respect to LDTs and there can be no assurance that the FDA will not require us to obtain premarket clearance or approval for some or all of the non-FDA cleared portions of our NMR LipoProfile test report. If the FDA imposes significant changes to the regulation of LDTs, or if Congress were to pass legislation that more actively regulates LDTs and in vitro diagnostic tests, it could restrict our ability to provide the portions of our test that are not cleared by the FDA or potentially delay the launch of future tests.While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to LDTs, we cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies, or third-party laboratories, would agree with our determination, and a determination that we have violated these laws, or a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violation of these laws, could hurt our business and our reputation. A significant change in any of these laws, or the FDA's interpretation of the scope of its enforcement discretion, could have a material adverse effect on our business or require us to make costly changes to our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws.If we are unable to obtain the required clearance of the currently non-cleared portions of our test from the FDA, third-party clinical diagnostic laboratories may be less willing to accept the Vantera system in their facilities.We have now submitted two 510(k) premarket notifications to the FDA in an attempt to obtain clearance for our HDL-P test. The first was submitted in March 2011 and second submitted December 2012 with both being voluntarily withdrawn due to FDA concerns regarding the clinical studies. In both submissions, LipoScience used retrospective studies sponsored by third parties to support clinical utility, and with both submissions the FDA has expressed concerns with the study designs. These concerns included not following the current definition of myocardial infarction, having a very selective population relative to the studies, and/or inadequate statistical power within the study. At the present time, we cannot provide a timeline for resubmission but are continuing to have on-going discussions with the FDA. There can be no assurance, however, that we will ever obtain clearance of the HDL-P test, or that the intended use or claims that may be cleared by the FDA in our 510(k) premarket notification for the HDL-P test will not be substantially reduced. We have not yet sought FDA clearance for any other LDTs but currently intend to do so for some of these non-cleared portions of our test. If FDA clearance of approval of the HDL-P test or other non-cleared portions of our test is delayed or does not occur, clinical diagnostic laboratories may be less willing to accept or reduce utilization of the Vantera system in their facilities. In the event we were to not receive clearance for HDL-P or these other tests, we would plan to continue to offer them as LDTs.34Table of ContentsIn addition, our NMR LipoProfile test report would continue to include a disclaimer that any non-cleared portions of tests had not been cleared by the FDA and that the clinical utility of such results had not been fully established. Furthermore, even if we do obtain FDA clearance for the currently non-cleared portions of our test, new premarket submissions for any modifications or enhancements we later make to such test, or to the Vantera system, that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the test or the Vantera system, would be required. We cannot be sure that clearance of a new 510(k) premarket notification would be granted on a timely basis, or at all, or that FDA clearance processes will not involve costs and delays that could adversely affect our ability to pursue our growth strategy.The NMR LipoProfile test is, and any other test for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval will be, subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products.Any test or medical device for which we obtain marketing clearance or approval, including the Vantera system that received FDA clearance in August 2012, along with the manufacturing processes, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such test or device, will be subject to continual requirements of, and review by, the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements relating to product labeling, advertising and promotion, and recordkeeping. Even if regulatory approval of a test or device is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to other conditions of approval. In addition, approval may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the test or device. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with our tests, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as:•restrictions on manufacturing processes;•restrictions on marketing of a test;•restrictions on distribution;•warning letters;•withdrawal of the test from the market;•refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;•recall of tests;•fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue;•suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals;•refusal to permit the import or export of our products;•product seizure;•injunctions; or•imposition of civil or criminal penalties.35Table of ContentsOur business is subject to other complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations. If we or any of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers fail to comply with these regulations, we could incur significant fines and penalties.As a provider of clinical diagnostic testing products and services, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various aspects of our business. In particular, the clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental certification and licensing regulations, as well as federal and state laws regarding:•test ordering and billing practices;•marketing, sales and pricing practices;•health information privacy and security, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and comparable state laws;•insurance;•anti-markup legislation; and•consumer protection.We are also required to comply with FDA regulation of our manufacturing practices and adverse event reporting activities, and regulation by the FDA of our labeling and promotion activities. In addition, advertising of our tests is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act. Violation of any FDA requirement could result in enforcement actions, such as seizures, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, and violation of the FTC Act could result in injunctions and other associated remedies, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most states also have similar postmarket regulatory and enforcement authority for devices. Additionally, most foreign countries have authorities comparable to the FDA and processes for obtaining marketing approvals. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals, and complying with all laws and regulations, may subject us to similar risks and delays as those we could experience under FDA and FTC regulation. We incur various costs in complying and overseeing compliance with these laws and regulations.We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future regarding our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect such legislation or regulations may have on us. Federal or state governments may impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to comply with any existing or future regulations, restrictions or interpretations, we could incur significant fines and penalties.If we or any of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers are subject to an enforcement action involving false claims, kickbacks, physician self-referral or other federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could incur significant civil and criminal sanctions and loss of reimbursement, which would hurt our business.The government has made enforcement of the false claims, anti-kickback, physician self-referral and various other fraud and abuse laws a priority. In many instances, private whistleblowers also are authorized to seek enforcement of these laws even if government authorities choose not to do so. Several clinical diagnostic laboratories and members of their management have been the subject of this enforcement scrutiny, which has resulted in significant civil and criminal settlement payments. In most of these cases, private whistleblowers brought the allegations to the attention of federal enforcement agencies. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that some of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. These laws include:•the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which regulates our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with health care providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;•federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;36Table of Contents•federal physician self-referral laws, such as the Stark law, which prohibit a physician from making a referral to a provider of certain health services with which the physician or the physician's family member has a financial interest, and prohibit submission of a claim for reimbursement pursuant to a prohibited referral; and•state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws and regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We monitor our own compliance with federal and state fraud and abuse laws on an ongoing basis. We do not, however, monitor the compliance of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers with federal and state fraud and abuse laws. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and hurt our reputation. If we were excluded from participation in U.S. federal health care programs, we would not be able to receive, or to sell our tests to other parties who receive, reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs. Further, the PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirements of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the criminal statute governing healthcare fraud. A person or entity can now be found guilty of violating the Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal criminal healthcare fraud statute without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act or federal civil money penalties statute. Possible sanctions for violation of laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under the federal Anti-Kickback Statue, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationship with physicians, hospitals, and other healthcare professionals, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws.On February 8, 2013, CMS released its final rule implementing certain provisions of the PPACA that impose new reporting requirements on device manufacturers for payments by them and in some cases their distributors to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians (commonly known as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act). Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately and completely reported in an annual submission. Device manufacturers must begin collecting data on August 1, 2013 and submit reports to CMS by March 31, 2014 (and the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year). In addition, CMS estimates that approximately 1,000 device and medical supply companies will be required to comply with the disclosure requirements and that the average cost per entity will be approximately $170,000 in the first year. Due to the complexity in complying with the newly enacted Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we cannot assure you that we will successfully report all transfers of value by us, and any failure to comply could result in significant fines and penalties.In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Nevada, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, while other states, such as Massachusetts and Vermont, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements.Our compliance program has not eliminated all risks related to these laws. Any finding of our noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to a variety of penalties and other sanctions, the imposition of any of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our business. In addition, whether or not we are found to be in non-compliance with any applicable laws, we could incur significant expense in responding to or resolving any such inquiries, investigations or actions and we could be required to modify our business practices in a way that adversely affects our business.37Table of ContentsAs previously disclosed, in 2011 we became aware of a practice engaged in by our sales force (giving gift cards in small denominations to staff in doctors' offices or to employees of our laboratory partners) that potentially implicated the fraud and abuse laws. An outside investigation concluded that there was no evidence of willful wrongdoing by any of our employees, but did conclude that our internal policies and communications provided inconsistent guidance on the use of gift cards. We subsequently revised our internal policies to eliminate any inconsistencies, and we have been taking and are continuing to take additional steps to strengthen our compliance activities. Among other things, we have adopted a new policy on interactions with healthcare professionals, which is based on the Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association, or AdvaMed, a leading medical technology association.We voluntarily disclosed the gift card issue to relevant regulatory authorities including the U.S. Attorney's Office in Raleigh, North Carolina and the Office of Inspector General of HHS. On July 5, 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with the OIG to settle this matter for a payment of approximately $150,000. We neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing in connection with this settlement.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockAn active trading market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained.Prior to our IPO in January 2013, there was no public market for our common stock, and even since our initial listing on The NASDAQ Global Market in January 2013, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies with stock listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. Our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders and their respective affiliates in the aggregate own a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock, which may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock. If these stockholders continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares and may increase the volatility of our stock price. The absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock.The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for diagnostic companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price paid for their shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:•sales of substantial amounts of our stock by insiders and large stockholders, or the expectation that such sales might occur;•regulatory or legal developments in the United States and foreign countries;•actual or anticipated variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;•changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;•announcements by us of significant acquisitions, licenses, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•market conditions in the diagnostic sector and issuance of securities analysts' reports or recommendations;•general economic, industry and market conditions;•additions or departures of key personnel;•intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us;•expiration or termination of our potential relationships with customers and strategic partners; and•the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section.38Table of ContentsIn addition, in the past, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against clinical diagnostics companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies' stock. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. As a newly public company, we have only limited research coverage by equity research analysts. Equity research analysts may elect not to initiate or to continue to provide research coverage of our common stock, and such lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Even if we do have equity research analyst coverage, we will not have any control over the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.The issuance of additional stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise may dilute our current stockholders.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment, our stock incentive plans or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result.There are provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of our company, even if a change in control was considered favorable by you and other stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. An issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders.Our charter documents also contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including:•only one of our three classes of directors is elected each year;•stockholders are not entitled to remove directors other than by a 66 2/3% vote and only for cause;•stockholders are not permitted to take actions by written consent;•stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and•stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings.In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock, including transactions that may be in your best interests. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management or limit the price that certain investors are willing to pay for our stock.39Table of ContentsConcentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders.We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and our stock may not appreciate in value.We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any existing or future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or that the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares will be able to be maintained.We are an “emerging growth company,” and if we decide to comply only with reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock could be less attractive to investors.We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” through 2018, although a variety of circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies that become public can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards following the completion of our IPO and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company.”As a public company, we are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming, expensive and may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from some of the reporting requirements including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of our status as a public company and our loss of the "emerging growth company" exemption or the timing of such costs.40Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.