Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. If the risks the Company faces, including those listed below, actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively impacted, and the trading price of our common stock could decline, which may cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Rising interest rates may hurt the Company’s profits. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, mortgage-related and investment securities. For example, if we experienced an immediate 100 basis point rise in interest rates as of September 30, 2006, the market value of our portfolio equity could decrease by $8.9 million. See Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to the number of multi-family, commercial real estate and consumer loans. Our multi-family, commercial real estate and consumer loans accounted for approximately 28.2% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. In addition, we plan to increase our emphasis on multi-family and commercial real estate lending. Because of our planned increased emphasis on and increased investment in multi-family and commercial real estate lending, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to expansion, unseasoned nature and amount of nonconforming loans. Over the last three years our loan portfolio has grown by $152.8 million or 26.0%. As a result of this growth, a portion of our portfolio is considered to be unseasoned, with the risk that these loans may not have had sufficient time to perform to properly indicate the potential magnitude of losses. Our unseasoned adjustable rate loans have not, therefore, been subject to an interest rate environment which causes them to adjust to the 27 Table of Contents maximum level and may involve risks resulting from potentially increasing payment obligations by the borrower as a result of repricing. Most of our adjustable rate mortgage loans are also non-conforming, due mainly to the generally large loan size and are, therefore, not readily saleable to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. They are, however, saleable to other private investors. Since some of these loans have terms which may result in negative amortization, where the loan payments do not fully cover interest expense and result in an increasing loan principal balance, the portfolio is also subject to increased risk of delinquency or default as the higher, fully indexed rate of interest subsequently comes into effect upon repricing. Strong Competition Within The Company’s Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. The amount of common stock we control, our charter and bylaws, and state and federal statutory provisions could discourage hostile acquisitions of control. Our board of directors and executive officers own approximately 12.55% of our common stock (as of December 31, 2006). In addition, the 401(k) Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as well as the restricted stock plan and the common stock underlying the stock option plan, has resulted in inside ownership of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. in excess of 20.68% of the total shares outstanding (including unallocated ESOP shares). This level of inside ownership and the provisions in our charter and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., pursue a proxy contest for control of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., or to assume control of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. by a holder of a large block of common stock and remove First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc.’s management, all of which certain stockholders might think are in their best interests. The charter and bylaw provisions include, among other things: • the staggered terms of the members of the board of directors; • an 80% shareholder vote requirement for the approval of any merger or consolidation of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. into any entity that directly or indirectly owns 5% or more of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. voting stock if the transaction is not approved in advance by at least a majority of the disinterested members of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc.’s board of directors; • supermajority shareholder vote requirements for the approval of certain amendments to First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc.’s charter and bylaws; • a prohibition on any holder of common stock voting more than 10% of the outstanding common stock; • elimination of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; • restrictions on the acquisition of our equity securities; and • the authorization of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that could be issued without shareholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings and loan holding companies such as First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. 28 Table of Contents If economic conditions deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In this regard, approximately 95% of our loans are to individuals and businesses in southern California. The rate of unemployment increased in San Diego County from 3.6% at December, 2005 to 3.7% at December, 2006 and from 4.2% to 4.6% in Riverside County over the corresponding time frame, based on reported preliminary data for 2006. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 