ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If these events occur, we may not be able to pay all or part of the interest or principal on the notes. Information contained in this section may be considered “forward-looking statements.” See “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of certain qualifications regarding such statements. Risks Relating to the Notes Your right to receive payments on the notes is effectively subordinated to the rights of our existing and future secured creditors. Further, the guarantees of the notes are effectively subordinated to all our guarantors’ existing and future secured indebtedness. Holders of our secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of the guarantors could have claims that are prior to the claims as holders of the notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing that other indebtedness. Notably, we and certain of our subsidiaries, including the guarantors, are parties to our Senior Credit Facility, which is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of the guarantors. The notes are effectively subordinated to all of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In the event of any distribution or payment of our assets in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization, or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of secured indebtedness will have a prior claim to those of our assets that constitute their collateral. Holders of the notes will participate ratably with all holders of our unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as the notes, and potentially with all of our other general creditors, based upon the respective amounts owed to each holder or creditor, in our remaining assets. In any of the foregoing events, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the notes. As a result, holders of the notes may receive less, ratably, than holders of secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount of our secured indebtedness, net of original issue discount was approximately $1,003.9 million, and $148.1 million of unused commitments were available for additional borrowings under the revolving portion of our Senior Credit Facility, including an outstanding Euro letter of credit of $1.9 million at December 31, 2011, which is considered a reduction against our revolving credit facility under the credit agreement. We are permitted to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future under the terms of the indenture governing the notes. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility limit our ability, and the terms of any future indebtedness may limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue disqualified and preferred stock; • make certain investments; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; • sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • incur liens; and • designate any of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility. If a default occurs, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facility may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, which would result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facility will also have the right to proceed against the collateral that secures those borrowings. If the indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facility and the notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. 15 Table of Contents Claims of noteholders are effectively subordinated to claims of creditors of all of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by our current and future wholly owned domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of our secured Senior Credit Facility. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries held approximately $73.6 million, or 2.4%, of our total assets and $23.2 million, or 1.3%, of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2011 and accounted for approximately $101.3 million, or 13.2%, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 (all amounts presented exclude intercompany balances). In addition, we have the ability to designate certain of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of the indenture and the credit agreement, and any subsidiary so designated will not be a guarantor of the notes or the Senior Credit Facility. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to the notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. Any right that we or the subsidiary guarantors have to receive any assets of any of the non-guarantor subsidiaries upon the liquidation or reorganization of those subsidiaries, and the consequent rights of noteholders to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets, are effectively subordinated to the claims of those subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of that subsidiary. In addition, the indenture governing the notes permits non-guarantor subsidiaries to incur significant additional indebtedness. The trading price of the notes may be volatile and can be directly affected by many factors, including our credit rating. The trading price of the notes could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to, among other factors, changes in our operating results, interest rates, the market for non-investment grade securities, general economic conditions and securities analysts’ recommendations, if any, regarding our securities. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies they follow, including us. Any ratings downgrade could adversely affect the trading price of the notes, or the trading market for the notes, to the extent a trading market for the notes develops. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future and any fluctuation may impact the trading price of the notes. We are a holding company with no operations and may not have access to sufficient cash to make payments on the notes. We are a holding company and have limited direct operations. Our most significant assets are the equity interests we hold in our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our outstanding debt service and other obligations and such dividends may be restricted by law, the instruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility, or other agreements of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the notes. In addition, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, except for our existing and future subsidiaries that are guarantors of the notes, any payments of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to legal and contractual restrictions on dividends. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries are contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings. Additionally, we may be limited in our ability to cause our existing and any future joint ventures to distribute their earnings to us. Subject to certain qualifications, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes, to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict payments from those subsidiaries to us. We cannot assure you that agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit those subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient cash to fund payments of principal, premiums, if any, and interest on the notes when due. In addition, any guarantee of the notes is subordinated to any secured indebtedness of a subsidiary guarantor to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. Federal and state statutes may allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received from guarantors. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a guarantee could be deemed a fraudulent transfer if the guarantor received less than a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for giving the guarantee and • was insolvent on the date that it gave the guarantee or became insolvent as a result of giving the guarantee, or • was engaged in business or a transaction, or was about to engage in business or a transaction, for which property remaining with the guarantor was an unreasonably small capital, or • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts that would be beyond the guarantor’s ability to pay as those debts matured. 16 Table of Contents A guarantee could also be deemed a fraudulent transfer if it was given with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any entity to which the guarantor was or became, on or after the date the guarantee was given, indebted. The measures of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding with respect to the foregoing. Generally, however, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, is greater than all its assets, at a fair valuation, or • the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature, or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot predict: • what standard a court would apply in order to determine whether a guarantor was insolvent as of the date it issued the guarantee or whether, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would determine that the guarantor was insolvent on that date; or • whether a court would determine that the payments under the guarantee constituted fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds. The indenture contains a “savings clause” intended to limit each subsidiary guarantor’s liability under its guarantee to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer under applicable law. We cannot assure you that this provision will be upheld as intended. In 2009, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida in Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TOUSA, Inc. v. Citicorp N. Am., Inc. found this kind of provision in that case to be ineffective, and held the subsidiary guarantees to be fraudulent transfers and voided them in their entirety. If a guarantee is deemed to be a fraudulent transfer, it could be voided altogether, or it could be subordinated to all other debts of the guarantor. In such case, any payment by the guarantor pursuant to its guarantee could be required to be returned to the guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. If a guarantee is voided or held unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the notes would cease to have a claim against the subsidiary based on the guarantee and would be creditors only of the Company and any guarantor whose guarantee was not similarly voided or otherwise held unenforceable. The lenders under our Senior Credit Facility have the discretion to release the guarantors under our Senior Credit Facility in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the notes. While any obligations under our Senior Credit Facility remain outstanding, any guarantee of the notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the notes or the trustee under the indenture governing the notes offered hereby, at the discretion of lenders under our Senior Credit Facility, if such guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our Senior Credit Facility or any other indebtedness. The lenders under our Senior Credit Facility will have the discretion to release the guarantees under our Senior Credit Facility in a variety of circumstances. You will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to holders of the notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in the indenture, each holder of the notes has the right to require us to purchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any. Our failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the notes would be a default under the indenture, which would in turn be a default under our Senior Credit Facility. In addition, a change of control may constitute an event of default under our Senior Credit Facility. A default under our Senior Credit Facility would result in an event of default under the indenture if the lenders accelerate the debt under our Senior Credit Facility. If a change of control occurs, we may not have enough assets to satisfy all obligations under our Senior Credit Facility and the indenture related to the notes. Upon the occurrence of a change of control we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facility and the notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders or you as a holder of the notes. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. No assurances can be given that any court would enforce the change of control provisions in the indenture governing the notes as written for the benefit of the holders, or as to how these change of control provisions would be impacted were we to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case. 17 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In the past we have discovered, and in the future we may discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we discovered and to improve our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Certain private equity investment funds affiliated with Carlyle own substantially all of our equity and their interests may not be aligned with yours. Carlyle and certain co-investors own substantially all of the fully diluted equity of our parent company, and, therefore, have the power to control our affairs and policies. Carlyle also controls the election of directors, the appointment of management, the entry into mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The directors so elected have authority, subject to the terms of our debt, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. The interests of Carlyle could conflict with your interests. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Carlyle and certain of its affiliates and co-investors, as equity holders, might conflict with your interests as a noteholder. Carlyle may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you as a noteholder. Additionally, Carlyle is in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the notes. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, we had $1,478.9 million of indebtedness, net of original issue discount on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $1,003.9 million was secured. In addition, we had $148.1 million of unused commitments under our revolving credit facility, including an outstanding Euro letter of credit of $1.9 million at December 31, 2011, which is considered a reduction against our revolving credit facility under the agreement. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility are subject to variable rates of interest; • expose us to additional risks related to currency exchange rates and repatriation of funds; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Credit Facility contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. The terms of the indenture governing the notes and our Senior Credit Facility permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional debt, including secured debt. Any additional borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility, and any other secured debt, would be effectively senior to the notes and any guarantees thereof to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Debt and Credit Facilities” for more covenant disclosure related to the Senior Credit Facility and the notes. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our Senior Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facility and the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The credit agreement governing the Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Senior Credit Facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Senior Credit Facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Senior Credit Facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business. There is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by our Senior Credit Facility and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could be difficult to replace our Senior Credit Facility on similar terms. Risks Relating to Our Business System failures, security breaches, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable services to our customers. Our operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of: • our computer software or hardware, or our customers’ or suppliers’ computer software or hardware; 19 Table of Contents • our networks, our customers’ networks or our suppliers’ networks; and • our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; • hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; • a terrorist attack in the United States or in another country in which we operate; • interruption of service arising from facility migrations, resulting from changes in business operations including acquisitions; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • loss or misuse of proprietary information or customer data that compromises security, confidentiality or integrity; and • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, our network nodes and other systems experience temporary outages. As a means of ensuring continuity in the services we provide to customers, we have invested in system redundancies and other back-up infrastructure, though we cannot assure you that we will be able to re-route our services over our back-up facilities and provide continuous service to customers in all circumstances. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on, including that of our customers and vendors, could disrupt the operation of our network and the provision of our services, result in the loss of current and potential customers and expose us to potential customer liability. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any of our major customers would harm us. Our 10 largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 represented approximately 61% and 60% of our revenues in the aggregate, respectively. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers or any services provided to these customers would negatively impact our business. Contracts with our largest customer expired in September 2011 and any non-renewal could materially reduce our revenues. Most of our customer contracts do not provide for minimum payments at or near our historical levels of revenues from these customers. Although some of our customer contracts require our customers to make minimum payments to us, these minimum payments are substantially less than the revenues that we have historically earned from these customers. Our contracts generally run for three years and some are terminable at the customer’s option upon 30 to 60 days’ notice. If our customers decide for any reason not to continue to purchase services from us at current levels or at current prices, to terminate their contracts with us or not to renew their contracts with us, our revenues would decline. Future consolidation among our customers may cause us to lose transaction volume and reduce our prices, which would negatively impact our financial performance. In the past, consolidation among our customers has caused us to lose transaction volume and to reduce prices. In the future, our transaction volume and pricing may decline for similar reasons. Such consolidation activities may take the form of business combinations, strategic partnerships, or other business arrangements between the operators. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up for any revenue declines if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline as a result of consolidation activities. Our attempts to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and changing customer demands. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our existing services and by successfully developing, introducing and marketing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. Our failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, retain customers or maintain our financial performance. We sell our services primarily to telecommunications companies. Our future revenues and profits will depend, in part, on our ability to sell to new market participants. 20 Table of Contents The market for our services is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have advantages over us. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, reduced gross and operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We face competition from large, well-funded providers of similar services, such as MACH Solutions, Ltd., Sybase, an affiliate of SAP; TNS, Inc., Neustar, Inc. and Telcordia Technologies, Inc. and other existing communications, billing and technology companies. We are aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing services that will compete with the services we offer. We anticipate increased competition in the telecommunications industry and the entrance of new competitors into our business. We expect that competition will remain intense in the near term and that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Our customers may develop in-house solutions and migrate part or all of the services that we provide them to these in-house solutions. We believe that certain customers may choose to internally deploy certain functionality currently provided by our services. In recent years, we have experienced a loss of revenue streams from certain of our services as some of our customers have decided to meet their needs for these services in-house. Our failure to achieve or sustain desired pricing levels or to offset price reductions with increased transaction volumes, could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Competition and industry consolidation have resulted in pricing pressure, which we expect to continue in the future and which we expect to continue to address through our volume-based pricing strategy. This pricing pressure could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. For example, consolidation in the wireless services industry in the United States over the past several years has given some of our customers increased leverage in pricing negotiations. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. While historically pricing pressure has been largely offset by volume increases and the introduction of new services, in the future we may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. Our continued expansion into international markets is subject to uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results. Our growth strategy contemplates continued expansion of our operations into foreign jurisdictions. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous risks, including: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; • U.S. and foreign import, export and related regulatory controls on trade; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, taxes upon repatriation or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries, including recruiting and hiring adequate and competent personnel and maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; • the risk that foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including for example a recent delay we experienced in receiving regulatory confirmation for the commencement of number portability services in India; and • the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. 21 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2011, 22.6% of total revenue was generated outside of North America as compared to 21.8% for the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, revenues generated by international operations are unlikely to be at entities that guarantee the notes. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could result in higher costs or reduced revenues for our international operations. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act (the “UK Act”). The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Act prohibits us from making payments to private citizens as well as government officials. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and technologies could impede our future growth, diminish our competitiveness and harm our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to consider acquiring complementary businesses. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: • greater than expected costs, management time and effort involved in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and difficulty in maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; • acquiring intellectual property which may be subject to various challenges from others; • the inability to successfully integrate the services, products and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; • the inability to achieve expected synergies; • a need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses; • incurrence of liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses; • realizing little, if any, return on our investment; and • unforeseen integration difficulties that may cause service disruptions. The inability of our customers to successfully implement our services could harm our business. Significant technical challenges can arise for our customers when they implement our services. Our customers’ ability to support the deployment of our services and integrate them successfully within their operations depends, in part, on our customers’ technological capabilities and the level of technological complexity involved. Difficulty in deploying those services could increase our customer service support costs, delay the recognition of revenues until the services are implemented and reduce our operating margins. 22 Table of Contents Our reliance on third-party providers for communications software, hardware and infrastructure exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. Our success depends on software, equipment, network connectivity and infrastructure hosting services supplied by our vendors and customers such as Real Networks, which provides us with a P2P messaging software platform, and Telcordia Technologies, Inc., which provides us with software for number porting. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase the necessary software, equipment and services from these vendors on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors and customers, we may lose customers during any disruption in services and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services, migration of equipment or services or incur additional capital expenditure costs. Our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers, that is used by our Network, Messaging and Roaming Services. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether those third parties will upgrade or improve their software, equipment and services to meet our and our customers’ evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. In addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to industry consolidation. This consolidation may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could lengthen the amount of time it takes to deliver the services that we use, in particular for those services for which we need access to mobile operators’ networks in order to deliver. Inability to develop or maintain relationships with material vendors. Certain of our products are dependent on third-party vendors and our inability to develop or maintain relationships with these vendors could result in a significant disruption to the services we provide. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services. The failure to develop and maintain vendor relationships and any resulting disruptions to the provision of our services could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A significant part of our business consists of sales made to customers outside the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 13% of the revenues we received from such sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our operating expenses are incurred by our international operations and denominated in local currencies. While fluctuations in the value of these revenues and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we cannot assure you that adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, including intercompany balances eliminated in consolidation, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currently, we do not engage in currency hedging contracts. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require more capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of services we offer; • maintain and expand our network; and • respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions and international expansion. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, the credit agreement governing the Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing the notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness or obtain financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to reduce our operations or abandon expansion opportunities. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, our failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness as our competitors may provide better-maintained networks or offer an expanded range of services. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we have to impair our intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 74% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of 23 Table of Contents December 31, 2011. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. Under current accounting standards, we are able to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill is not amortized. We currently evaluate, and will continue to evaluate, on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting standards, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations to which they or we may become subject may harm our business. Although our services have not been deemed to be common carrier telecommunication services, we are authorized by the FCC to offer certain of our services on an interstate and international basis, and such authorization alone may subject us to certain regulatory obligations at the federal level. Moreover, certain telecommunications services that we offer on a non-common carrier basis are subject to regulatory requirements of the FCC and foreign regulatory bodies. Several services that we offer also may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon the customers and end users of those services. These regulations may increase our costs of operations and affect whether and in what form we are able to provide a given service at all. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation—including reregulation or deregulation—might occur or the effects, adverse or otherwise, that such regulation may have on our business. Capacity limits on our network and application platforms may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems to meet increased use. As customers’ usage of our services increases, we will need to expand and upgrade our network and application platforms. We may not be able to accurately project the rate of increase in usage of our services. In addition, we may not be able to expand and upgrade, in a timely manner, our systems, networks and application platforms to accommodate increased usage of our services. If we do not appropriately expand and upgrade our systems and networks and application platforms, we may lose customers and our operating performance may suffer. We may not be able to receive or retain licenses or authorizations that may be required for us to sell our services internationally. The sales and marketing of our services and related products internationally are subject to the U.S. Export Control regime and similar regulations in other countries. In the United States, items of a commercial nature are generally subject to regulatory control by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security and to Export Administration Regulations, and other international trade regulations may apply as well. In the future, regulatory authorities may require us to obtain export licenses or other export authorizations to export our services or related products abroad, depending upon the nature of items being exported, as well as the country to which the export is to be made. We cannot assure you that any of our applications for export licenses or other authorizations will be granted or approved. Furthermore, the export license/export authorization process is often time-consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our revenue growth opportunities and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations or our ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign countries through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and agreements preventing the unauthorized disclosure and use of our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse engineering our services, or independently developing and marketing services that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. Moreover, third parties may be able to successfully challenge, oppose, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. We may fail or be unable to obtain or maintain adequate protections for certain of our intellectual property in the United States or certain foreign countries. Further, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights. Such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights can be challenging and costly. From time to time, we may be required to initiate litigation or other action to enforce our intellectual property rights or to establish their validity. Such action could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, and we cannot assure you that any such action will be successful. 24 Table of Contents If third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and ability to compete. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, significant litigation regarding patent rights exists in our industry. Our competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products and services. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent litigation. It is possible that third parties will make claims of infringement against us, or against our licensees or other customers, in connection with their use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing, using or selling equipment, services or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our equipment, services or products, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees or customers in connection with the use of our technology could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. If third parties claim that our products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages or costs they incur in connection with such claims. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to claims that our products or services infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the United States and abroad. The loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or in other major global markets could negatively impact our financial performance. Unfavorable general economic conditions may continue globally, or in one or more regions, due to the decreased availability of credit resulting from slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending. Adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the United States, Europe, including the ongoing European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain European countries and to the overall Eurozone, or in one or more of our other major markets, could adversely affect our customers in the wireless communications markets and thus impact our financial performance. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause further slow spending on our services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times such as recession or economic slowdown, our customers or vendors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments or provide services to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our accounts receivable outstanding would be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn and any future downturn may reduce our revenues or our percentage of revenue 25 Table of Contents growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, world-wide, or in the telecommunications industry. If the economy or the markets in which we operate do not improve from their current condition or if they deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could reduce or further delay their use of our services, which would adversely impact our revenues and ultimately our profitability. In addition, we may record additional charges related to the restructuring of our business and the impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Demand for our services is driven primarily by wireless voice and data traffic, subscriber roaming activity, SMS and MMS messaging, number porting and next generation IP applications. Changes in subscriber usage patterns could be affected in any recession or economic downturn in the United States or any other country where we do business and could negatively impact the number of transactions processed and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. The possibility of such litigation, and its timing, is in large part outside our control. While none of the current lawsuits in which we are involved are reasonably estimated to be material as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have material adverse effects on us. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the Merger. The Merger could cause disruptions in our business relationships and business generally, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example: • customers and vendors may experience uncertainty about our future and seek alternative business relationships with third parties or seek to alter their business relationships with us; • our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at our company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees; and • the attention of our management may be directed to transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day operations of our business and pursuit of our strategic initiatives. In addition, we have incurred significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Carlyle Transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 