Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in Texas United’s Common Stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that Texas United believes affect its business and an investment in the Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that Texas United is unaware of, or that it deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect Texas United and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements report on Form 10-K were to occur, Texas United’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Texas United’s Business If Texas United is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. Texas United has expanded its business through internal growth programs, acquisitions and opening de novo branches. Texas United may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. In addition, Texas United may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to identify and integrate suitable and profitable acquisition targets. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, Texas United may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If Texas United is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. If Texas United is unable to manage its growth effectively, its operations could be negatively affected. Companies like Texas United that experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • finding suitable markets for expansion; • finding suitable candidates for acquisition; • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage its growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within its organization, Texas United must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of its business. If Texas United does not manage its growth effectively, its business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and Texas United may not be able to continue to implement its business strategy and successfully conduct its operations. If Texas United is unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate its acquired businesses, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. Texas United intends to continue its current growth strategy. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and Texas United may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that Texas United is unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of its growth strategy may be lost. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect Texas United’s organization. Texas United may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if completed, Texas United may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires and eliminate redundancies. The 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements integration process may also require significant time and attention from Texas United’s management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. Texas United’s failure to successfully integrate the entities it acquires into its existing operations may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect its business and earnings. Texas United’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of Texas United’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, Texas United is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact Texas United’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Texas United’s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Texas United expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to Texas United’s position, this “gap” may work against Texas United, and its earnings may be negatively affected. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and Texas United’s ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to an increase in prepayments on Texas United’s loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates affect Texas United’s net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and its overall results. Although Texas United’s asset-liability management strategy is designed to control its risk from changes in the general level of market interest rates, market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of Texas United’s control, including inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, money supply and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. In view of the continued low interest rates on savings, loans and investments that currently prevail, it is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, and Texas United cannot always accurately predict the nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect its business. Texas United’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. Texas United’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, Texas United provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the central and south central areas of Texas and in counties in and surrounding the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas metroplex. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Texas United’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect Texas United’s financial results. A large percentage of Texas United’s loans are secured by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect Texas United’s profitability. Approximately 69.0% of Texas United’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005 was comprised of loans secured by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in Texas United’s market areas specifically could impair the value of Texas United’s collateral and its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts Texas United 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements receives upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, Texas United’s profitability and financial condition could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. Texas United could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on its foreclosed real estate assets. A significant portion of Texas United’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be found on the properties that secure Texas United’s loans. If Texas United acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, it could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and adversely affect Texas United’s profitability. Although Texas United has policies and procedures that require it to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Texas United’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, Texas United is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate Texas United for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Texas United may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of Texas United’s loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of its commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate market on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation of its loan portfolio by the external loan review. Texas United maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than Texas United has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, Texas United relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If Texas United’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Texas United’s allowance for loan losses and may require Texas United to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of Texas United’s management. Any increase in Texas United’s allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on Texas United’s operating results and financial condition. Texas United’s small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. Texas United targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the central and south central Texas area or the other markets in which Texas United operates, Texas United’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements An interruption in or breach in security of Texas United’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. Texas United relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in Texas United’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Texas United cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by Texas United. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on Texas United’s results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated With Texas United’s Industry Texas United faces strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect its operations and financial condition. Texas United faces vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services than Texas United does. Texas United also competes with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations, each of which may offer more favorable financing than Texas United is able to provide. Some of Texas United’s nonbank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Texas United. This competition may reduce or limit Texas United’s margins on banking services, reduce its market share and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Texas United operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect its financial performance, and Texas United may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. Texas United is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on Texas United, its subsidiary banks, and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Texas United’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of State Bank, GNB Financial and Gateway, which could have a material adverse effect on Texas United’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on Texas United. Risks Associated With Texas United Common Stock Texas United’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of Texas United that you may favor. Texas United’s articles of incorporation and bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of Texas United. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors, of each class having staggered, three year terms; • a provision requiring the approval of the holders of at least 70% of Texas United common stock in the event of a merger or consolidation in which Texas United is not the surviving entity in the transaction or the sale or exchange of all or substantially all of Texas United’s assets; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • a provision that any special meeting of Texas United’s shareholders may be called only by a majority of the board of directors, the president or the holders of at least 50% of Texas United’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend Texas United’s bylaws. Texas United’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of Texas United preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in Texas United. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of Texas United. The trading volume in Texas United common stock has been low. Although Texas United common stock is listed for trading on the National Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market, the trading volume in Texas United common stock has been limited. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market place of willing buyers and sellers of Texas United common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which Texas United has no control. Given the limited trading volume of Texas United common stock, significant sales of its common stock by new or existing shareholders, or the expectation of these sales, could cause Texas United’s stock price to fall. Risks Related to Texas United’s Pending Acquisition of Northwest Bancshares, Inc. There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with the Northwest acquisition. As a result of the pending acquisition of Northwest Bancshares, Inc., Texas United will acquire all of the assets and liabilities of Northwest, including, without limitation, its loan portfolio. Texas United has not previously owned or operated Northwest and it does not have any detailed working experience related to its business and operations. There may be instances when Texas United, under its normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition, that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of Northwest, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below Texas United’s standards or the allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause Texas United to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs or increases in allowances for credit losses, which could have a negative impact upon its future income. Texas United may not be able to successfully consummate the acquisition of Northwest and, even if the acquisition is consummated, Texas United may not be able to integrate Northwest’s operations with its business efficiently. While Texas United has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the capital stock of Northwest, there are a number of conditions to completing the acquisition, and there can be no assurance that those conditions will be satisfied. Even if the acquisition is consummated, it will create risks associated with the integration of Northwest’s operations with Texas United’s, including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Texas United may not realize the benefits from the Northwest acquisition that it anticipates, or it may not be able to integrate Northwest’s operations successfully. If Texas United fails to integrate the operations of Northwest efficiently, it could have a material adverse effect on Texas United’s business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 