ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry in which we operate, both as a result of recently enacted legislation and changing government regulation, which may have a material adverse impact on the businesses of our hospital customers and ultimately on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities, including our hospital customers. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and certain capital expenditures. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590; Public Law 111-148) (“PPACA”) and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872) (the “Reconciliation Act”), which amends the PPACA (collectively the “Health Reform Laws”), were signed into law in March 2010. The Health Reform Laws represent sweeping changes to the U.S. healthcare system. While we currently anticipate that the Health Reform Laws will have little direct impact on our internal operations, they may have a significant impact on the business of our hospital customers, which in turn could affect our business. Some of the provisions in the Health Reform Laws may have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact on our customers due to fewer available resources. Increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the health care sector, including us. Among other things, the Health Reform Laws require nearly all individuals to have health insurance, expand Medicaid eligibility, mandate material changes to the delivery of healthcare services and reduce the reimbursement paid for such services in order to generate savings in the Medicare program, and modify certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. Many of the provisions of the Health Reform Laws do not take effect for an extended period of time, during which time they will likely be subject to further adjustments through future legislation and the outcome of constitutional challenges. Additionally, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the Health Reform Laws will be subject to further clarification and modification through the rule-making process, the development of agency guidance and judicial interpretations. Accordingly, we have not been able to determine at this point whether the impact of the legislation on our hospital customers will be positive, negative or neutral. However, it is likely that the Health Reform Laws will affect hospitals differently depending upon the populations they serve and their payor mix. Our target market of community hospitals typically serve higher uninsured populations than larger urban hospitals and rely more heavily on Medicare and Medicaid for reimbursement. It remains to be seen whether the increase in the insured population for community hospitals will be sufficient to offset proposed cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements contained in the Health Reform Laws. The Health Reform Laws will ultimately lead to significant changes in the healthcare system. While it is too early to fully understand and assess the impact of the Health Reform Laws on our hospital customers, it is possible that the Health Reform Laws could have a material adverse effect on the business of our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Additionally, various legislators have announced that they intend to examine further proposals to reform certain aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such additional proposals or healthcare reforms might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate that these regulations will continue to affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management’s attention and divert other company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties. While provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 have increased and are expected to increase the demand for healthcare information technology, including the solutions offered by us, such laws and regulations may require additional expenditures and have adverse consequences on our business. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), includes more than $19 billion in funding to aid healthcare organizations in modernizing their operations through the acquisition and wide-spread use of healthcare information technology. Included in the funding is approximately $17.2 billion in incentives through Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement systems to encourage and assist healthcare providers in adopting and using electronic health records (“EHRs”). These incentive payments began in February 2011 and last through 2015. If an eligible healthcare provider does not begin to demonstrate meaningful use of EHRs by 2015, then reimbursement under Medicare will begin to be reduced. Notwithstanding that the ARRA places substantial emphasis on the modernization of the U.S. healthcare system by incentivizing the use of healthcare information technology, with a primary focus on EHRs, our ability to benefit from such initiatives could change. Final regulations issued in July 2010 under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, which was enacted as part of the ARRA in 2009, established the technical capabilities required for certified EHRs, as well as “meaningful use” requirements that healthcare providers must satisfy to qualify for bonus payments under the Medicare program. We have devoted significant resources to help ensure that our technology meets the ARRA’s EHR certification requirements, and our EHR system was certified under ARRA in late 2010. However, in the event that changes to the EHR technical requirements are made, we may be required to incur additional research and development expenditures to modify or expand our software systems in order to maintain certification under the ARRA. The failure of our EHR system to maintain its certification under ARRA, as result of changes to the technical requirements under the ARRA or otherwise, could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. Economic, market and other factors may cause a decline in spending for information technology and services by our current and prospective customers which may result in less demand for our products, lower prices and, consequently, lower revenues and a lower revenue growth rate. The purchase of our information system involves a significant financial commitment by our customers. At the same time, the healthcare industry faces significant financial pressures that could adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services. For example, the recent economic recession and continued decrease in availability of credit, combined with potential reductions in federal and state funding for Medicare and Medicaid, has caused hospitals to reduce, eliminate or postpone information technology related and other spending. To the extent spending for healthcare information technology and services declines or increases slower than we anticipate, demand for our products and services, as well as the prices we charge, could be adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues or our growth rate. There are a limited number of hospitals in our target market. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in the loss of existing customers, a reduction in our potential customer base and downward pressure on our products’ prices. There are a finite number of hospitals with 300 or fewer acute care beds in our general target market. Saturation of this market with our products or our competitors’ products could eventually limit our revenues and growth. Furthermore, many healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation continues, we could lose existing customers and could experience a decrease in the number of potential purchasers of our products and services. The loss of existing and potential customers due to industry consolidation could cause our revenue growth rate to decline. In addition, larger, consolidated enterprises could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to downward pressure on the prices for our products and services. Continued volatility in and disruption to the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access credit in the future, the cost of any credit obtained in the future, and the financial soundness of our customers and our business. While the Company does not currently have any debt, ongoing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by other financial institutions and decreased liquidity, may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit should we seek it in the future. Although we believe that our operating cash flow and financial assets will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that the continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase the costs of any future borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted to the extent that our hospital customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, the recent economic recession or cuts in Medicare and Medicaid funding. As a result, hospitals may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our software systems or services. Additionally, if hospitals’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. The absence of third-party credit has resulted in many of our hospital customers seeking financing arrangements from us to purchase our software systems and services. These financing arrangements impact our short-term operating cash flow and cash available. Should the requests for these financing arrangements continue or increase, our business could be negatively impacted by our inability to finance these arrangements. In addition, the absence of credit could negatively impact our existing financing receivables should our customers with financing arrangements be unable to meet their obligations. Competition with companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have could result in loss of customers and/or a lowering of prices for our products, causing a decrease in our revenues and/or market share. Our principal competitors are Meditech, Healthland and HMS, Meditech, Healthland and HMS compete with us directly in our target market of small and midsize hospitals. These companies offer products and services that are comparable to our system and are designed to address the needs of community hospitals. Our secondary competitors include McKesson Corporation, Quality Systems, Inc., Quadramed Corp., Prognosis Health Information Systems LLC, Cerner Corporation, and Siemens Corporation. Most of these companies are significantly larger than we are, and they typically sell their products and services to larger hospitals outside of our target market. However, they sometimes compete directly with us. We also face competition from providers of practice management systems, general decision support and database systems and other segment-specific applications, as well as from healthcare technology consultants. Any of these companies, as well as other technology or healthcare companies, could decide at any time to specifically target hospitals within our target market. A number of existing and potential competitors are more established than we are and have greater name recognition and financial, technical and marketing resources. Products of our competitors may have better performance, lower prices and broader market acceptance than our products. We expect increased competition that could cause us to lose customers, lower our prices to remain competitive and, consequently, experience 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins. Additionally, the substantial amount of money contemplated by the ARRA to be spent on healthcare information technology may further increase competition by attracting new and financially stronger companies to this industry. Our failure to develop new products or enhance current products in response to market demands could adversely impact our competitive position and require substantial capital resources to correct. The needs of hospitals in our target market are subject to rapid change due to government regulation, trends in clinical care practices and technological advancements. As a result of these changes, our products may quickly become obsolete or less competitive. New product introductions and enhancements by our competitors that more effectively or timely respond to changing industry needs may weaken our competitive position. We continually redesign and enhance our products to incorporate new technologies and adapt our products to ever-changing hardware and software platforms. Often we face difficult choices regarding which new technologies to adopt. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, or experience significant delays in product development or introduction, our competitive position could be negatively affected. Moreover, our failure to offer products acceptable to our target market could require us to make significant capital investments and incur higher operating costs to redesign our products, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. Potential regulation of our products as medical devices by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could increase our costs, delay the introduction of new products and slow our revenue growth. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the “FDA,” could become more active in regulating the use of computer software for clinical purposes. The FDA has increasingly regulated computer products and computer-assisted products as medical devices under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, an example of which is our ImageLink® product. If the FDA regulates any more of our products as medical devices, we would likely be required to, among other things: • seek FDA clearance by demonstrating that our product is substantially equivalent to a device already legally marketed, or obtain FDA approval by establishing the safety and effectiveness of our product; • comply with rigorous regulations governing pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of medical devices; and • comply with the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act’s general controls, including establishment registration, device listing, compliance with good manufacturing practices and reporting of specified device malfunctions and other adverse device events. There is a possibility that some of our products currently in development or to be developed in the future could be subjected to FDA regulation similar to our ImageLink® product. If any of our products fail to comply with FDA requirements, we could face FDA refusal to grant pre-market clearance or approval of products; withdrawal of existing clearances and approvals; fines, injunctions or civil penalties; recalls or product corrections; production suspensions; and criminal prosecution. FDA regulation of our products could increase our operating costs, delay or prevent the marketing of new or existing products and adversely affect our revenue growth. Governmental regulations relating to patient confidentiality and other matters could increase our costs. State and federal laws regulate the confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations may require the users of such information to implement security measures. Regulations governing electronic health data transmissions are also evolving rapidly, and they are often unclear and difficult to apply. In our support agreements with our customers, we agree to update our software applications to comply with applicable federal and state laws. While we believe we have developed products that comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and other regulatory requirements, new laws, 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements regulations and interpretations could force us to further redesign our products. Any such product redesign could consume significant capital and research and development and other resources, which could significantly increase our operating costs. Additionally, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”), which was enacted as part of the ARRA in 2009, significantly expanded HIPAA by extending the security standards of HIPAA to “business associates” of healthcare providers that are covered entities under HIPAA. Under the HITECH Act, business associates are required to establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards and are subject to direct penalties for violations. Our business management services activities frequently entail us acting in the capacity of a business associate to the hospitals that we serve, and therefore we are covered by the patient privacy and security standards of HIPAA and subject to oversight of the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”). We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to comply with HIPAA, as it applies to us as a business associate, but it is important to note that DHHS could, at any time in the future, adopt new rules or modify existing rules in a manner that could require us to change our systems or operations. There is no certainty that we will be able to respond to all such rules in a timely manner and our inability to do so could adversely affect our business. Our products assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, our customers could assert claims against us that could result in substantial cost to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our products to decline. We provide products that assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. Our products could fail or produce inaccurate results due to a variety of reasons, including mechanical error, product flaws, faulty installation and/or human error during the initial data conversion. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, customers and/or patients could sue us to hold us responsible for losses they incur from these errors. These lawsuits, regardless of merit or outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. Breaches of security and viruses in our systems could result in customer claims against us and harm to our reputation causing us to incur expenses and/or lose customers. In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health information. We have included security features in our systems that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of this information. Despite the existence of these security features, our system may experience breakins and similar disruptive problems that could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer networks of our customers. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. Because of the sensitivity of medical information, customers could sue us for breaches of security involving our system. Also, actual or perceived security breaches in our system could harm the market perception of our products which could cause us to lose existing and prospective customers. Additionally, the effect of security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that these systems will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements New products that we introduce or enhancements to our existing products may contain undetected errors or problems that could affect customer satisfaction and cause a decrease in revenues. Highly complex software products such as ours sometimes contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when updates and new versions are released. Tests of our products may not detect bugs or errors because it is difficult to simulate our customers’ wide variety of computing environments. Despite extensive testing, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our products. Defects or errors discovered in our products could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with our products, cause a loss of revenue, result in legal actions by our customers and cause increased insurance costs. Our facilities are located in an area vulnerable to hurricanes and tropical storms, and the occurrence of a severe hurricane, similar storm or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or limit our operations. Most of our facilities and employees are situated on one campus in Mobile, Alabama, which is located 30 miles north of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Our facilities are vulnerable to significant damage or destruction from hurricanes and tropical storms. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including tornadoes, fires, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to conduct business at our facilities could be seriously impaired or completely destroyed. This would have adverse consequences for our customers who depend on us for system support or business management services. Also, the servers of customers who use our remote access services could be damaged or destroyed in any such disaster. This would have potentially devastating consequences to those customers. Although we have an emergency recovery plan, including back-up systems in remote locations, there can be no assurance that this plan will effectively prevent the interruption of our business due to a natural disaster. Furthermore, the insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from any natural disaster or other business interruption. Interruptions in our power supply and/or telecommunications capabilities could disrupt our operations, cause us to lose revenues and/or increase our expenses. We currently have backup generators to be used as alternative sources of power in the event of a loss of power to our facilities. If these generators were to fail during any power outage, we would be temporarily unable to continue operations at our facilities. This would have adverse consequences for our customers who depend on us for system support, business management and information technology management and professional services. Any such interruption in operations at our facilities could damage our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and obtain new customers, and could result in lost revenue and increased insurance and other operating costs. We also have customers for whom we store and maintain computer servers containing critical patient and administrative data. Those customers access this data remotely through telecommunications lines. If our power generators fail during any power outage or if our telecommunications lines are severed or impaired for any reason, those customers would be unable to access their mission critical data causing an interruption in their operations. In such event our remote access customers and/or their patients could seek to hold us responsible for any losses. We would also potentially lose those customers, and our reputation could be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified customer service and support personnel, our business and operating results will suffer. Our customer service and support is a key component of our business. Most of our hospital customers have small information technology staffs, and they depend on us to service and support their systems. Future difficulty in attracting, training and retaining capable customer service and support personnel could cause a decrease in the 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements overall quality of our customer service and support. That decrease would have a negative effect on customer satisfaction which could cause us to lose existing customers and could have an adverse effect on our new customer sales. The loss of customers due to inadequate customer service and support would negatively impact our ability to continue to grow our business. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with our key personnel, and their departure could harm our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the leadership and performance of our chief executive officer and other executive officers. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our executive officers. Therefore, they may terminate their employment with us at any time and may compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could limit our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our financial condition. We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on a combination of confidentiality provisions in our customer agreements, employee nondisclosure agreements, trademark and trade secret laws and other measures to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, our software is not patented or copyrighted. Although we attempt to control access to our intellectual property, unauthorized persons may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use. If our competitors gain access to our intellectual property, our competitive position in the industry could be damaged. An inability to compete effectively could cause us to lose existing and potential customers and experience lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins. If we are deemed to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services if we cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Further, as the number and functionality of our products increase, we believe we may become increasingly subject to the risk of infringement claims. If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract management. We may have to spend a significant amount of money and time to defend or settle those claims. In addition, claims against third parties from which we purchase software could adversely affect our ability to access third party software for our systems. If we were found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to pay significant license fees or damages for infringement. If we were unable to obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms, we would be required to discontinue the sale of our products that contain the infringing technology. Our customers would also be required to discontinue the use of those products. We are unable to insure against this risk on an economically feasible basis. Even if we were to prevail in an infringement lawsuit, the accompanying publicity could adversely impact the demand for our system. Under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify our customers for some types of infringement claims that may arise from the use of our products. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, which is not within our control, and which may diminish Internet usage and availability as well as access to our web site. We deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, we are dependent on the maintenance of the Internet by third parties. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it and our performance may decrease if the Internet continues to experience its historic trend of expanding usage. As a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, the Internet has experienced a variety of performance problems which may continue into the foreseeable future. Such Internet related problems may diminish Internet usage and availability of the internet to us form transmittal of our Internet-based services. In addition, difficulties, outages, and delays by Internet service providers, online service providers and other web site operators may obstruct or diminish access to our Web site by our clients resulting in a loss of potential or existing users of our services. We may be subject to liability in the event we provide inaccurate claims data to payors. We offer electronic claims submission services as part of our business management services. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payors, Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payors, we may be subject to liability claims. We are dependent on our license rights and other services from third parties, which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our products as well as other services from third-party vendors. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to continue using the products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain equivalent technology or services. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue providing their technology or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products. We may be subject to false or fraudulent claim laws. There are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. In some cases, these laws also forbid abuse of existing systems for such submission and payment. Any failure of our billing and collection services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial liability including, but not limited to, criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Errors by us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees, cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payors and have an adverse effect on our business. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our billing and collection services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. A portion of our business involves billing of Medicare claims on behalf of its clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately proven to be without merit. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe our current sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause us to fail to meet revenues or earnings expectations which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. There is no assurance that consistent quarterly growth in our business will occur. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons. For example, prospective customers often take significant time evaluating our system and related services before making a purchase decision. Moreover, a prospective customer who has placed an order for our system could decide to cancel that order or postpone installation of the ordered system. If a prospective customer delays or cancels a scheduled system installation during any quarter, we may not be able to schedule a substitute system installation during that quarter. The amount of revenues that would have been generated from that installation will be postponed or lost. The possibility of delays or cancellations of scheduled system installations could cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate. The following factors may also affect demand for our products and services and cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate: • changes in customer budgets and purchasing priorities; • the ability of our customers to obtain financing for the purchase of our products; • the financial stability of our customers; • the specific mix of software, hardware and services in orders from customers; • the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and services from us and our competitors; • product and price competition; • our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; • the availability and cost of system components; • delay of revenue recognition to future quarters due to an increase in the sale of our remote access SaaS services; 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the length of sales cycles and installation processes; • changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rulemaking bodies; • accounting policies concerning the timing of recognition of revenue; • personnel changes; and • general market and economic factors. Variations in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter, our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. We currently recognize revenue pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 985-605, Software, Revenue Recognition, or ASC 985-605. ASC 985-605 summarizes the FASB’s views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of this pronouncement will not further modify our revenue recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not limited to: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; • rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • governmental regulatory action; • healthcare reform measures; • customer relationship developments; • purchases or sales of company stock; • changes occurring in the markets in general; • macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and • other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced significant volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 