ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its subsidiary, Pacific State Bank, conduct business in an environment that includes certain risks described below which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition, future prospects and stock price. You are also referred to the matters described under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," for additional information regarding factors that may affect the Company's business. Going Concern Uncertainty The consolidated financial statements contained in the Company’s Annual Report to Shareholders for 2009, which information is incorporated herein by this reference, have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. As a result, the consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of any regulatory action or the Company’s or the Bank’s inability to meet its existing debt obligations. The Bank has recently incurred significant operating losses, experienced a significant deterioration in the quality of its assets and become subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny. These factors, among others, were deemed to cast significant doubt on the Company’s and the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company cannot continue to operate as a going concern, it is likely that shareholders will lose all or substantially all of their investment in the Company. The Company is actively pursuing a broad range of strategic alternatives, including a capital infusion or a merger, in order to address any doubt related to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that the pursuit of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction, or that any such transaction will allow the Company’s shareholders to avoid a loss of all or substantially all of their investment in the Company. The pursuit of strategic alternatives may also involve significant expenses and management time and attention. Additional Capital The Company needs to raise additional capital to meet the higher minimum capital levels that the Bank and Company are obligated to maintain under the Consent with the CDFI. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank was considered “under capitalized” under the prompt corrective action rules of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). In addition, should the Company’s current rate of operating losses continue or should the Company’s asset quality erode and require significant additional provision for credit losses, resulting in additional net operating losses, the Company’s capital levels will decline further and it will need to raise more capital to satisfy its regulatory capital requirements. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be certain of its ability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all. If the Company cannot raise additional capital, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and it may be subject to further supervisory action. See “Regulatory Risk.” In addition, if the Company were to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares, its stock price could be adversely affected, depending on the terms of any shares it were to issue. -19- Regulatory Risk During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company and the Bank entered into the Written Agreement with the FRB and the CDFI. See “Recent Developments” for the discussion of the terms of the Written Agreement. Additionally, on April 15, 2010, the Bank executed a Waiver and Consent to an Order of the CDFI (the “Consent”) requiring the Bank, within 90 days of the effective date of the Order, to increase and to maintain tangible capital at a level equal to 10% of assets. The effective date will be the date that the CDFI executes the Order per se. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank had a ratio of tangible capital to assets of 3.9%, which was not sufficient to meet the higher level that the Bank would be obligated to maintain under the Consent. As a result, if within 90 days of the effective date of the Order the Bank cannot comply with the Consent provisions, the Bank may be subject to further supervisory action, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and business. In addition, due to the ongoing economic downturn and the resultant deterioration in the Central California commercial real estate and commercial business markets and adverse impact on the Bank’s loan portfolio and financial results, the Company and the Bank’s conduct of their business may be the subject of additional regulatory actions and face further limitations on their business. Bank regulatory authorities have the authority to bring enforcement actions against banks and bank holding companies for unsafe or unsound practices in businesses or for violations of any law, rule or regulation, any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate bank regulatory agency or any written agreement with the authority. Possible enforcement actions against the Company and Bank could include the issuance of a cease-and-desist order, the issuance of directives to increase capital or to enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party, the appointment of a conservator or receiver for the Bank, the termination of insurance of deposits, the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution- affiliated parties, and the enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders. The imposition of any such enforcement actions would likely have an adverse effect on the Company’s and the Bank’s results of operations, financial condition and business. No Assurance of Profitability The Company incurred a net loss of $22.4 million, or $6.02 per diluted common share, for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a $15.4 million provision for loan losses, a $718 thousand charge for goodwill impairment and the establishment of a $8.4 million net deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Although the Company has taken a significant number of steps to reduce its credit exposure, the Company likely will continue to incur credit costs throughout 2010, which Management anticipates will continue to adversely impact the Company’s overall financial performance and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve profitability in the future. -20- Change in Capital Classification As of December 31, 2009, the Company and the Bank were no longer classified as “well capitalized” under generally applicable regulatory guidelines. In addition, the Company and the Bank do not presently meet this standard and there is a substantial risk that the Company and the Bank will fail to meet such requirements in future periods unless the Company is successful in executing on its three-year capital and strategic plan. The Bank’s regulatory capital position has reduced such that it was classified as ”under capitalized,” thereby causing it to be unable to renew the use of brokered deposits as a source of funds. A “well capitalized” institution may accept brokered deposits without restriction. An “adequately capitalized” institution must obtain a waiver from the FDIC in order to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits. In addition, certain interest-rate limits apply to the financial institution’s brokered and solicited deposits. Although an institution could seek permission from the FDIC to accept brokered deposits if it were no longer considered to be “well capitalized,” the FDIC may deny permission, or may permit the institution to accept fewer brokered deposits than the level considered desirable. Since the Bank’s level of deposits are being reduced, due to the lack of a full brokered deposit waiver and by the interest rate limits on brokered or solicited deposits, Management anticipates that the Bank will reduce its assets and, most likely, curtail its lending activities. Other possible consequences of classification as an “under capitalized” institution include the potential for increases in borrowing costs and terms from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and other financial institutions and increases in FDIC insurance premiums. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and business. Dividends from the Bank The principal source of funds from which the Company services its debt and pays its obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. As a result of entering into the Written Agreement, it is also restricted, without prior approval from the FRB and the CDFI, from paying dividends to the Company. Deferral of Interest on Trust Preferred Securities In the third quarter of 2009, the Company elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on its outstanding $8.5 million of junior subordinated notes relating to its trust preferred securities. During the deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the junior subordinated notes at the stated coupon rate, including the deferred interest, and the Company may not, among other things and with limited exceptions, pay cash dividends on or repurchase its common stock nor make any payment on outstanding debt obligations that rank equally with or are junior to the junior subordinated notes. As a result of the Company’s deferral of interest on the junior subordinated notes, it is likely that the Company will not be able to raise funds through the offering of debt securities until the Company becomes current on those obligations or those obligations are restructured. This deferral may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, the Company will likely have greater difficulty in obtaining financing and, thus, will have fewer sources to enhance its capital and liquidity position. In addition, if the Company defers interest payments on the junior subordinated notes for more than 20 consecutive quarters, the Company would be in default under the indenture agreements governing such notes and the amount due under such agreements would be immediately due and payable. Continued Listing on The NASDAQ Global Select Market The Company’s common stock is listed on The NASDAQ National Market. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market provide, among other things, that a company may be delisted if its market value of its publicly held share do not equal $15 million and the bid price of its stock drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, the shares may be delisted. The market value of the Company’s shares do not equal $15 million and the closing price of the Company’s common stock was $0.37 per share on March 31, 2010 and $0.51 on February 28, 2010. If the Company fails to comply with the listing standards applicable to issuers listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the Company’s common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The delisting of the Company’s common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade the Company’s securities and would likely reduce the liquidity and market price of the Company’s common stock. In addition, the delisting of the Company’s common stock could also materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in the Company’s common stock. -21- Liquidity Risk Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance the Company’s activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the Bank’s business activity due to a market downturn, adverse regulatory action against the Company or the Bank, an increase in costs of capital in financial capital markets, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in the Bank. The Bank’s ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to the Company, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by financial institutions in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. The expiration of the FDIC’S TAG program in December may cause depositors to reduce the size of their deposits with us. In October 2008, the FDIC announced its TAG Program as part of the TLG Program. The TAG Program guarantees full deposit insurance coverage of non-interest bearing transaction accounts until December 31, 2010, regardless of the dollar amount and in addition to the standard FDIC insurance. The current expiration of the TAG Program is anticipated to be the Bank’s most significant liquidity risk in the near term and mitigating the liquidity impact of such an event remains a priority. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 49 deposit accounts with balances greater than $250,000 participating in the TAG Program providing unlimited insurance coverage for a total of $26 million in deposits. The TAG Program is due to expire December 31, 2010. If the TAG Program is not extended again by the FDIC, we could experience withdrawals by account holders of any amounts they have on deposit in excess of the amount then insured by the FDIC. Even if the FDIC decides to extend the TAG Program again, it could do so on terms that makes the program unavailable to us or on terms that make the program less attractive for us to participate. Based on current liquidity sources, we anticipate that we will have adequate collateral and other sources of liquidity to meet those potential needs. However, it could require us to utilize the majority of our available liquidity and potentially utilize a portion of our borrowing capacity at the discount window. A significant decline in our deposits and/or an increase in collateral requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. FDIC Premiums FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and the Bank expects to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The FDIC has recently been considering different methodologies by which it may increase premium amounts, because the costs associated with bank resolutions or failures have substantially depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund. In November 2009, the FDIC voted to require insured depository institutions to prepay slightly over three years of estimated insurance assessments. While the Bank was exempted from prepaying three years assessments, the increase in premiums significantly increased the Bank’s non-interest expense in 2009, and may continue to do so for the foreseeable future. -22- Reputation Risk Reputation risk, or the risk to the Company’s earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in Company’s business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to keep and attract customers and expose the Company to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from the Company’s actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Increased Likelihood of Class Action Litigation and Additional Regulatory Enforcement The market price of the Company’s common stock has declined substantially over the past year. This decline could result in shareholder class action lawsuits, even if the activities subject to complaint are not unlawful, and even if the lawsuits are ultimately unsuccessful. Recent events in financial markets and negative publicity may result in more regulation and legislative scrutiny of the Company’s industry practices and may cause additional exposure to increased shareholder litigation and additional regulatory enforcement actions, which would adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company's net interest income. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize the Company's interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company's net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. The Company faces strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which can hurt Pacific State Bancorp' business. The Company's subsidiary, Pacific State Bank, conducts banking operations principally in Stockton California and San Joaquin County. Increased competition in the Bank's market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, it may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by the Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, the Bank's competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If the Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits, which may adversely affect its and the Company's results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. -23- Changes in economic conditions could result in an economic downturn in Northern California which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company's business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company's control. A deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally including as the result of terrorist activities within and outside California could result in an economic downturn in Northern California and trigger the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect the Company's business: · loan delinquencies and defaults may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for the Company's products and services may decline; · low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and · collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans. · The Company has a concentration risk in real estate related loans. At December 31, 2009, approximately 6.5% of the Company's loan portfolio consisted of real estate related loans. Substantially all of the Company's real property collateral is located in its operating markets in Stockton, California and San Joaquin County. The Company has experienced a substantial decline in real estate values in the Company's primary market areas as a result of an economic downturn. The Company’s management has been proactive in working with borrowers having problems repaying loans that have become delinquent or have the potential to become delinquent. In most cases, collateral values are sufficient to repay outstanding principal and interest. In the cases where collateral values have fallen short of the principle and interest owed on the loans, management has reserved for the estimated potential loss. Other events including natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, and floods could materially effect real estate values in the Company’s primary market areas. Such a decline in values could have an adverse impact on the Company by limiting repayment of defaulted loans through sale of the real estate collateral and by likely increasing the number of defaulted loans to the extent that the financial condition of its borrowers is adversely affected by such a decline in values. Those events could necessitate a significant increase in the provision for loan and lease losses which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results. The Company’s allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company’s control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company’s loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that the Company’s allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that it will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company's earnings. -24- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable 