D. Risk Factors You should consider the following risks with respect to an investment in us and investments in our American Depositary Shares ("ADSs"). We depend on the retention and renewal of our existing client contracts and our ability to attract new customers Our success depends on our ability to retain and renew existing client contracts and to obtain and successfully negotiate new client contracts. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality, price and responsiveness of our services, as well as our ability to market these services effectively and to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Additionally, our growth in the Service Vouchers and Cards business depends upon our geographic expansion, new product development, superior branding and affiliate networks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew existing client contracts or that our current customers will not turn to competitors, cease operations, elect to self-operate or terminate contracts with us as a result of merger or acquisition. We also cannot be certain that we will obtain new contracts in any of our market segments, or that any new contracts will be profitable. If we cannot continue to grow our operations through the renewal of existing contracts or the negotiation of new contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely affected if customers reduce their outsourcing or use of preferred vendors Our business and growth strategies depend in large part on the continuation of a trend in business, education, healthcare and government markets toward outsourcing services. The decision to outsource depends upon customer perceptions that outsourcing may provide higher quality services at a lower overall cost and permit customers to focus on core business activities. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or that customers that have outsourced functions will not decide to perform these functions themselves. In addition, labor unions representing employees of some of our current and prospective customers have occasionally opposed the outsourcing trend and sought to direct to union employees the performance of the types of services we offer. Management has also identified a trend among some of our customers toward the retention of a limited number of preferred vendors to provide all or a large part of their required services. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or, if it does continue, that we will be selected and retained as a preferred vendor to provide these services. Adverse developments with respect to either of these trends would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire, train and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if labor costs continue to increase Certain trends in the global labor market, or in certain specific areas, could adversely impact our business. The global economy has experienced reduced levels of unemployment in recent years, which have created a shortage of qualified workers at all levels. Given that our workforce requires large numbers of entry level, skilled and hourly workers, especially in the delivery of services other than food services to our clients, low levels of unemployment could compromise our ability in certain businesses to provide quality service or compete for new business. A failure to hire, train and retain qualified management personnel, particularly at the entry management level could also jeopardize our continued success. Furthermore, increases in wages or employee benefits whether regulatory or otherwise, could have an impact on profitability. Moreover, labor laws in certain countries require us to retain employees of businesses we acquire, which in turn may cause us to incur additional training costs and increase headcount beyond optimal levels. 2 Adverse developments regarding the foregoing trends, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be adversely affected if claims by employees in connection with their employment are resolved against us Due to the nature of our business and the large number of individuals we employ around the world, and the risk of employment-related litigation, the resolution of such claims against us could have an adverse effect on our business. Food shortages, and increases in food or other indirect operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition We face fluctuating food prices and limited availability of certain food items during the year. Food price and availability and transport costs, including the cost of oil and gas, also vary by geographic location. In addition, broader trends in food consumption, such as concern about health and safety, may from time to time disrupt our business. Our typical contract allows for certain adjustments due to rising prices or changed menus over time, but often we must accept a reduced margin for a period of time to ensure the availability of certain required food groups and to maintain customer satisfaction. Our experience has been that changes in food preferences or shortages, when they occur, may adversely affect our profitability at a given location. Although most of our contracts provide for minimum annual price increases for products and services provided by us, we could be adversely impacted during inflationary periods if the rates of contractual increases are lower than the relevant inflation rate. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we were faced with other indirect cost increases, to the extent we were unable to recover such increased indirect costs through increases in our prices for our products and services. For example, in recent years there has been, in general, a rise in insurance and related premiums. To the extent that food or other operating costs increase, and to the extent we are unable to pass these costs on to our clients for competitive or economic reasons, our profit margins will decrease. The pricing terms of our services contracts may constrain our ability to recover costs and to make a profit on our contracts Most of our contracts have a fixed price element. For example, the terms of these contracts could require us to guarantee the price of the services we provide and assume the risk that our costs to perform the services and provide the materials will be greater than anticipated. This type of contract term could expose us to losses if our estimates of contract operating costs are too low. Our profitability on these contracts is therefore dependent on our ability to accurately predict the costs associated with our services. These costs may be affected by a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. If we are unable to accurately predict the costs of fixed price contracts, certain projects could have lower margins than anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations There is significant competition in the food and support services business from local, regional, national and international companies of varying sizes, a number of which have substantial financial resources. Our ability to successfully compete depends on our ability to satisfy our clients by providing quality services at a reasonable price. Certain of our competitors may be willing to underbid us, accept a lower profit margin or expend more capital in order to obtain or retain business. Existing or potential clients may also elect to self-operate their food service, or to utilize other purchasing arrangements, thereby reducing or eliminating the opportunity for us to serve them or compete for the account. Moreover, because our business is highly decentralized, it is imperative that we keep pace with advances in technology and information services, especially with respect to inventory, labor and cost management and the communication of our best practices among our operations worldwide. If we do not or cannot make necessary expenditures in these areas, we may be less competitive and, consequently, less profitable. Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Economic conditions in the United States and worldwide have resulted in lower demand for our services from non-government sector business clients, particularly private corporate clients in our Food and Management Services 3 business, with a negative impact on our revenues. Economic conditions may also exert budgetary pressures on public sector clients. Further economic downturns may reduce demand for our services as well as decrease occupancy rates in certain segments of the facilities that we manage. These factors may cause us to lose business, lose economies of scale, or contract for business on less favorable terms than our current prevailing terms. Additionally, our Remote Sites activity is heavily dependent on the oil industry, and therefore can be cyclical and dependent upon oil prices. Our semi-annual results may vary significantly as a result of factors beyond our control Our semi-annual results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors over which we have no control, including our customers' budgetary constraints, school vacations, the timing and duration of our customers' planned maintenance activities and shutdowns, changes in our competitors' pricing policies and general economic conditions. Furthermore, some operating and fixed costs, which remain relatively constant throughout the fiscal year, may lead to fluctuations in semi-annual results when offset by differing levels of revenues. For these reasons, a half-year to half-year comparison is not a good indication of our current performance or how we will perform in the future. We are subject to extensive regulation Due to the nature of our industry, our listings on the French and the New York stock exchanges, and the global nature of our operations, we are subject to a international, federal, state, county and municipal laws, regulations and licensing requirements, as well as a large number of regulatory and enforcement authorities. The laws and regulations governing our industry have become increasingly complex governing a wide variety of areas, including, among others, labor, employment, immigration, health and safety, corporate governance, consumer protection and the environment. The cost of compliance with these sometimes overlapping and rapidly evolving regulatory regimes and the failure or apparent failure to address any regulatory changes or enforcement initiatives could have a significant impact on our results of operations, and violations of certain regulations could result in penalties, fines, disciplinary actions, increase our litigation risk or harm our reputation. There can be no assurance that additional regulation or enforcement initiatives in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate would not limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, the growth and success of our Service Vouchers and Cards business depends to an extent upon the continued availability of domestic tax and labor law incentives encouraging the use of service vouchers by employers and employees. A reduction or elimination of these benefits in our more significant markets, or across many of our markets, could have an adverse result on our business and results of operations. Claims of illness or injury associated with the service of food and beverages to the public could adversely affect us Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and a number of these claims may exist at any given time. As a result, we could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from food quality or handling claims at one or more of the facilities that we serve. In addition to decreasing our revenues and profitability at our facilities, adverse publicity could negatively impact our service reputation, hindering our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms or to obtain new business. Our international business results are influenced by currency fluctuations and other factors that may be different from factors affecting the United States market A significant portion of our revenues is derived from international markets. During fiscal 2005, approximately 69% and 54% of our revenues and EBITA, respectively, were generated outside the euro zone. The operating results of our international subsidiaries are translated into euro and such results are affected by movements in foreign currencies relative to the euro, especially movements in the value of the U.S. dollar. Our business is also subject to risks whose effects may be more pronounced in our international operations, including national and local regulatory requirements; potential difficulties in staffing and labor disputes; failures to obtain and manage support and distribution for local operations; significant natural disasters such as electrical black-outs, floods or droughts; fluctuations in local interest rates; inflation; credit risk or poor financial condition of local customers; the potential imposition of restrictions on investments; potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; foreign 4 exchange restrictions; and geo-political or social conditions in certain sectors of our international markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, we expect that revenues from such emerging markets as Latin America, Central Europe and Asia will continue to develop over the long term. Emerging market operations present several risks, including volatility in gross domestic production; credit risk; civil disturbances; economic and governmental instability; changes in regulatory requirements; nationalization and expropriation of private assets; significant fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation; the imposition of additional taxes or other payments by foreign governments or agencies; and exchange controls and other adverse actions or restrictions imposed by foreign governments. We are subject to risks associated with our acquisitions of other businesses We have acquired and may in the future acquire a substantial number of businesses. Our acquisitions may not improve our financial performance in the short or long term as we expect. Acquisitions enhance our earnings only if we can successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our management organization, purchasing operations, distribution network and information systems. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses may be adversely affected by factors that include customer resistance to our product brands and distribution system, our failure to retain management and sales personnel, difficulties in converting different information systems to our systems, the size of the acquired business and the allocation of limited management resources among various integration efforts. In addition, the benefits of synergy which we expect at the time we select our acquisition candidates may not be as significant as we originally anticipated. One or more of our acquisition candidates may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover prior to the acquisition. Difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, as well as liabilities or adverse operating issues relating to acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an increase in our profitability, the acquisitions may adversely affect our earnings in the short term. Our earnings may decrease as a result of transaction-related expenses we record for the quarter in which we complete an acquisition. Our earnings may be further reduced by the higher operating and administrative expenses we typically incur in the quarters immediately following an acquisition as we seek to integrate the acquired business into our operations. Natural disasters, acts of war and terrorist-related events may have a continuing negative impact on our business We cannot assess with any degree of certainty the future effects on our business of natural disasters and terrorist attacks that have occurred and may occur in the future throughout the world and other responsive actions, including war. In recent years, natural disasters and terrorist attacks and acts of war have significantly adversely affected general economic and political conditions, increasing many of the risks highlighted in these risk factors. This may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our transition to international accounting standards may affect our operating results Due to the adoption by the European Union's Council of a regulation, effective on January 1, 2005, requiring listed European companies to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), we are currently converting our accounting standards from French GAAP into IFRS. While we do not believe that this transition to IFRS will have a material adverse effect on our reported financial condition or results of operations, there are differences between French GAAP and IFRS. We currently have significant indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future At August 31, 2005, our percentage of total debt to total capitalization was approximately 48%. Our total capitalization is the sum of our shareholders' equity, minority interests and borrowings. Some lenders may consider this ratio negatively in their credit decisions. Also, financial and other covenants in our lending agreements may occasionally restrict our ability to operate our business in certain ways. Specifically, our agreements limit our ability to dispose of our assets, our subsidiaries' abilities to guarantee and borrow money, our ability to incur certain types of 5 debt, our ability to merge or consolidate with other companies (subject to certain exceptions) and our ability to alter the fundamental nature of our business (subject to certain exceptions). We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to limitations contained in the instruments governing our indebtedness, to finance capital expenditures or for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above the levels required to service our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs, or that we will be able to obtain credit on terms as favorable as those we enjoy currently if our debt to total capitalization ratio increases. If our business fails to generate sufficient operating cash flow in the future, or if we fail to obtain cash from other sources such as asset sales or additional financings, we will be restricted in our ability to continue to make acquisitions for cash and to invest in expansion or replacement of our facilities, information systems and equipment. Such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our profitability or reputation may be affected by various operational risks Operational risk is inherent in our business and can manifest itself in various ways including business interruption, poor supplier performance, information systems malfunctions or failures, regulatory breaches, human errors, employee misconduct, and/or external fraud. These events can potentially result in financial loss, harm to our reputation and/or hinder our operational effectiveness. Our management attempts to control these risks and keep operational risk at appropriate levels by maintaining a sound and well-controlled environment in light of the characteristics of our business, the markets and regulatory environment in which we operate. Notwithstanding these control measures, operational risk is part of the business environment in which we operate and we may incur losses from time to time due to these types of risks. Risks Related to an Investment in our American Depositary Shares ("ADSs") The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate The ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. For example, because our financial statements are reported in euro, a decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce our earnings as reported in U.S. dollars. This could adversely affect the price at which the ADSs trade on the U.S. securities markets. Any dividend we might pay in the future would be denominated in euro. A decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of any such dividend. You may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for shares underlying your ADSs Under French law, shareholders have preemptive rights ("droits preferentiels de souscription") to subscribe for cash for issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights, directly or indirectly, to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. Shareholders may waive their preemptive rights specifically in respect of any offering, either individually or collectively, at an extraordinary general meeting. Preemptive rights, if not previously waived, are transferable during the subscription period relating to a particular offering of shares and may be quoted on the exchange for such securities in Paris. United States holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for the shares underlying their ADSs unless a registration statement under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder is available. At the time of any rights offering, we intend to evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the indirect benefits of enabling the exercise by the holders of ADSs of the preemptive rights associated with the shares underlying their ADS, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to whether to file such a registration statement. We cannot guarantee that any registration statement would be filed, or, if filed, that it would be declared effective. If preemptive rights cannot be exercised by an ADS holder, The Bank of New York, as depositary, will, if possible, sell such holder's preemptive rights and distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the holder. If the depositary determines, in its discretion, that such rights cannot be sold, the depositary may allow such rights to lapse. In either case, ADS holders' interest in us will be diluted, and, if the depositary allows rights to lapse, holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of preemptive rights. 6 Holders of ADSs may be subject to additional risks related to holding ADSs rather than shares Because holders of ADSs do not hold their shares directly, they will be subject to certain additional risks, including those listed below. In the event of a dividend or other distribution, if exchange rates fluctuate during any period of time when the depositary cannot convert euro into U.S. dollars, the ADS holder may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. There can be no assurance that the depositary will be able to convert any currency at a specified exchange rate or sell any property, rights, shares or other securities at a specified price, or that any of such transactions can be completed within a specified time period. ADS holders will generally have the right to instruct the depositary to exercise the voting rights for the shares represented by the ADSs if we ask the depositary to ask the holders for instructions. There can be no guarantee, however, that ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. It is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote at all. ADS holders may not receive copies of all reports from the depositary or us; these holders may have to go to the depositary's offices to inspect any reports issued. You may not be able to effect claims or enforce judgments brought against us for alleged violations of the U.S. securities laws We are a societe anonyme organized under the laws of France. A majority of our directors and officers are non- U.S. residents, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our directors and officers are and we expect will continue to be located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or most of these persons or to enforce judgments against us or them in United States courts. Furthermore, there is doubt as to the enforceability in France, in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. French courts may not have the requisite jurisdiction to grant the remedies sought in an original action brought in France based solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws. In order to effectively enforce judgments of U.S. courts rendered against our French officers and directors in France, these persons would have to waive their rights under Article 15 of the French Civil Code, which provides that citizens of France may be sued only in France unless they otherwise consent. We believe that none of these persons has waived this right with respect to actions predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, actions in the United States could be adversely affected under certain circumstances by the French law of July 26, 1968, as modified by a law of July 16, 1980, which may preclude or restrict the gathering of evidence in France or from French persons in connection with such actions. 