Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities, including our common stock and our 7.50% Senior Notes due April 15, 2020 (“senior notes”), is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operating Environment Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to pursue an organic and acquisition growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions, branch acquisitions and other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. There are risks associated with our growth strategy. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involves various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of integrating acquired banks or branches into PacTrust Bank, and or Beach, the risk of loss of customers and/or employees of the acquired institution or branch, executing cost savings measures, not achieving revenue enhancements and otherwise not realizing the transaction’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations, may require investment in integration and in development and enhancement of additional operational and reporting processes and controls, and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. Our growth initiatives may also require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risks related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we will have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our pending acquisition of PBOC. On August 21, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of PBOC. The closing of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the approval of the 46 Table of Contents merger by PBOC shareholders and receipt of all necessary or advisable regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given as to when or whether these approvals will be received. The success of our pending acquisition of PBOC will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine our businesses with those of PBOC in a manner that does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues from our respective customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Company and PBOC have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger, including anticipated cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of the Company and PBOC. To realize these anticipated benefits, after the completion of the merger, we expect to integrate PBOC’s business into our own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business in the markets in which PBOC now operates, which could adversely affect us. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that lead PBOC customers to move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on us for an undetermined period after completion of the merger. In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated. Our recent acquisitions of Beach and Gateway may present certain risks to our business and operations. We completed our acquisition of Beach on July 1, 2012 and our acquisition of Gateway on August 17, 2012. Difficulties in capitalizing on the opportunities presented by the Beach and Gateway acquisitions may prevent us from fully achieving the expected benefits from the acquisitions, or may cause the achievement of such expected benefits to take longer than expected. Further, the assimilation of PacTrust Bank’s, Beach’s and Gateway’s customers and markets could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our businesses, including the businesses of PacTrust Bank, Beach and Gateway or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. These matters could have an adverse effect on First PacTrust for an undetermined period. We will be subject to similar risks and difficulties in connection with any future acquisitions, including the pending acquisition of PBOC. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in PacTrust Bank’s and Beach’s market areas. The current economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan and lease portfolio. Our primary market area is concentrated in the greater San Diego, Riverside, Orange and Los Angeles counties. Adverse economic conditions in any of these, market areas can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers’ ability to repay loans and leases and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Weak economic conditions and ongoing strains in the financial and housing markets have resulted in higher levels of loan and lease delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans and leases. 47 Table of Contents A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • demand for our products and services may decline; • loan and lease delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • collateral for our loans and leases may further decline in value; and • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease. We cannot accurately predict the effect of the weakness in the national economy on our future operating results or the market price of the notes. The national economy in general and the financial services sector in particular continue to face significant challenges. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of current economic weaknesses, which have adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in national or local economic conditions would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of the notes to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long these conditions may exist, the current economic weaknesses could present substantial risks for some time for the banking industry and for us. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan and lease portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan and lease carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan or lease, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan or lease. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable incurred losses in our loan and lease portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan and lease portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans and leases; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans and leases; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans and leases. If our loan and lease losses exceed our allowance for probable incurred loan and lease losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. 48 Table of Contents The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans and leases. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses, we review our loans and leases and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Our allowance for loan and lease losses was 1.16% of gross originated loans and leases held for investment and 62.84% of originated nonperforming originated loans at December 31, 2012. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further charge-offs, based on judgments different than that of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increases in the provision for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property and declining property values. At December 31, 2012, $658.6 million, or 52.8% of our total gross loan and lease portfolio, was secured by single-family mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which will in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of adjustable rate loans. A substantial majority of our real estate secured loans held are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of defaults that may adversely affect our profitability. Our underwriting practices may not protect us against losses in our loan portfolio. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices, including: analyzing a borrower’s credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuing collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verifying liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are, and historically have been, appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we have incurred losses on loans that have met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer behavior. In addition, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Finally, we may have higher credit risk, or experience higher credit losses, to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower 49 Table of Contents type, or location of the borrower or collateral. Our residential loan portfolio is largely jumbo loans that exceed loan size limit of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and therefore have a more limited secondary market demand than that of conforming loans. At December 31, 2012, 73.5% of our commercial real estate loans and 97.4% of our residential mortgages were secured by collateral in Southern California. Deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in Southern California could result in significantly higher credit losses to our portfolio. Our non-traditional, interest-only single-family residential loans expose us to increased lending risk. Many of the residential mortgage loans we have originated for investment consisted of non-traditional single family loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the borrower or property, the loan terms, loan size or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines. In the case of interest-only loans, a borrower’s monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status. Since the borrower’s monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, the borrower might not be able to afford the increased monthly payment. In addition, interest-only loans have a large, balloon payment at the end of the loan term, which the borrower may be unable to pay. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. Negative amortization is only permitted up to 110% of the original loan to value ratio during the first five years the loan is outstanding, with payments adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents, potentially resulting in higher payments by the borrower. The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments. Also, real estate values may decline, and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their loans to pay off their mortgage obligations. For these reasons, interest-only loans and negative amortization loans are considered to have an increased risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure than conforming loans and may result in higher levels of realized losses. Our income property loans, consisting of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and multi-family real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multi-family real estate loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial or multi-family real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and multi-family real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2012, our commercial and multi-family real estate loans totaled $453.6 million, or 36.4% of our total gross loan portfolio. 50 Table of Contents Our portfolio of Green Loans subjects us to greater risks of loss. We have a portfolio of Green Account home equity loans which generally have a fifteen year draw period with interest-only payment requirements, and a balloon payment requirement at the end of the draw period. The Green Loans include an associated “clearing account” that allows all types of deposit and withdrawal transactions to be performed by the borrower during the term. We ceased originating new Green Loans in 2011; however, existing Green Loan borrowers are entitled to continue to draw on their Green Loan, and at December 31, 2012, the balance of Green Loans in our portfolio totaled $206.0 million. In 2011, we implemented an information reporting system which allowed us to capture more detailed information than was previously possible, including transaction level data concerning our Green Loans. Although such transaction level data would have enabled us to more closely monitor trends in the credit quality of our Green Loans, we do not possess the enhanced transaction level data relating to the Green Loans for periods prior to the implementation of those enhanced systems. Although we do not believe that the absence of such historical data itself represents a material impediment to our current mechanisms for monitoring the credit quality of the Green Loans, until we compile sufficient transaction level data going forward we are limited in our ability to use historical information to monitor trends in the portfolio that might assist us in anticipating credit problems. Green Loans expose us to greater credit risk than other residential mortgage loans because they are non- amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Although the loans require the borrower to make monthly interest payments, we are also subject to an increased risk of loss in connection with the Green Loans because payments due under the loans can be made by means of additional advances drawn by the borrower, up to the amount of the credit limit, thereby increasing our overall loss exposure due to negative amortization. The balloon payment due on maturity may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Our ability to take remedial actions in response to these additional risks of loss is limited by the terms and conditions of the Green Loans and our alternatives consist primarily of the ability to curtail additional borrowing when we determine that either the collateral value of the underlying real property or the credit worthiness of the borrower no longer supports the level of credit originally extended. Additionally, many of our Green Loans have larger balances than traditional residential mortgage loans, and accordingly, if the loans go into default either during the draw period or at maturity, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with traditional residential loans. If our investments in other real estate owned are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property is taken in as other real estate owned (“OREO”), and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value (fair value) of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs. A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in other real estate owned may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional write-downs. Additional material write-downs to our investments in other real estate owned could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further write-downs. Any increase in our write-downs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our portfolio of “re-performing” loans subjects us to a greater risk of loss. We have a portfolio of re-performing residential mortgage loans which we purchased in several large pools at a discount to the outstanding principal balance on the loans. These re-performing loans were discounted because either (i) the borrower was delinquent at the time of the loan purchase or had previously been delinquent and had become current prior to our purchase of the loan, or (ii) because the loan had been modified from its 51 Table of Contents original terms. We purchased the loans because we believe that we can successfully service the loans and have the borrowers consistently meet their obligations under the loan, which will increase the value of the loans. However, re-performing loans expose us to greater credit risk than other residential mortgage loans because they have a higher risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure than other residential mortgage loans and may result in higher levels of realized losses. Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may not be sufficient to repay the loan in the event of default. We make our commercial and industrial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial and industrial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial and industrial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. As of December 31, 2012, our commercial and industrial loans totaled $80.4 million, or 6.4% of our total gross loan portfolio. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our online banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption, or breaches in security, of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems and, therefore, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to real properties which we may acquire. Due to the continued weakness of the U.S. economy and, more specifically, the California economy, including higher levels of unemployment than the nationwide average and continuing declines in real estate values, many borrowers have been unable to meet their loan repayment obligations and, as a result, we have had to initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to and take title to an increased number of real properties that had collateralized their loans. Moreover, if the economic conditions remain weak or worsen, we may have to continue to foreclose and take title to additional real properties. As an owner of such properties, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur substantial costs for any property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up that may be required due to any environmental contamination that may be found to exist at any of those properties, even though we did not engage in the activities that led to such contamination. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages for environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities or costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The expansion of our single family residential mortgage loan originations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan originations business consists of providing purchase money loans to homebuyers and refinancing existing loans. The origination of purchase money mortgage loans is greatly influenced by independent third parties involved in the home buying process such as realtors and builders. As a result, our ability to secure relationships with such independent third parties will affect our ability to grow our 52 Table of Contents purchase money mortgage loan volume and, thus, our loan originations business. Our retail branches and retail call center also originates refinances of existing mortgage loans, which is very sensitive to increases in interest rates, and may decrease significantly if interest rates rise. Our wholesale originations business operates largely through third party mortgage brokers who are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks. We have made substantial investments to grow our residential mortgage lending business in recent quarters, including adding experienced mortgage loan officers and administrators and management, leasing additional space at our headquarters, opening additional loan production offices, and investing in technology. Our residential mortgage lending business may not generate sufficient revenues to enable us to recover our substantial investment in our residential mortgage lending business, or may not grow sufficiently to contribute to earnings in relation to our investment. Moreover, we may be unable to sell the mortgage loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market at a profit due to changes in interest rates or a reduction in the demand for mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market. Accordingly, our investment in and expansion of our residential mortgage lending business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by governmental sponsored entities (“GSE”) or our ability to qualify for such programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. Our mortgage banking operations, which are conducted through the Mission Hills Mortgage Bankers division acquired in connection with our acquisition of Gateway, provide a significant portion of our non-interest income. We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family residential loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors on a servicing released basis. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and earnings. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for single-family residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may fluctuate or even worsen in the future. We believe our ability to retain mortgage loans is limited. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce our loan production volumes and could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. Any breach of representations and warranties made by us to our residential mortgage loan purchasers or credit default on our loan sales may require us to repurchase residential mortgage loans we have sold. We sell a majority of the residential mortgage loans we originate in the secondary market pursuant to agreements that generally require us to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty 53 Table of Contents made by us to the loan purchaser. Any fraud or misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process, whether by us, the borrower, mortgage broker, or other party in the transaction, or, in some cases, upon any early payment default on such mortgage loans, may require us to repurchase such loans. We believe that, as a result of the increased defaults and foreclosures during the past several years resulting in increased demands for repurchases and indemnifications in the secondary market, many purchasers of residential mortgage loans are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify or repurchase loans and would benefit from enforcing any repurchase remedies they may have. We believe that our exposure to repurchases under our representations and warranties includes the current unpaid balance of all loans we have sold, including loans originated and sold by Gateway prior to our acquisition. Gateway previously originated loans that had more flexible underwriting guidelines than our current guidelines, and we believe, a higher risk of loss. From 2004 through the time of our acquisition of Gateway in 2012, Gateway sold an aggregate of $8.0 billion of residential loans. To recognize the potential loan repurchase or indemnification losses from those loans, we have recorded a reserve of $3.5 million as of December 31, 2012. During 2012, we sold an aggregate of $547.5 million of residential loans. A deterioration in the economy, an increase in interest rates or a decrease in home values could increase customer defaults on residential loans we sold and increase demands for repurchases and indemnification and increase our losses from loan repurchases and indemnifications. If we are required to indemnify or repurchase loans that we originate and sell that result in losses that exceed our reserve, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any claims asserted against us in the future by one of our loan purchasers may result in liabilities or legal expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s investment securities portfolio consisted of 85 securities, 40 of which were in an unrealized loss position. The majority of unrealized losses are related to the Company’s private label residential mortgage-backed securities, as discussed below. The Company’s private label residential mortgage-backed securities that are in a loss position had a fair value of $12.3 million with unrealized losses of approximately $128 thousand at December 31, 2012. The Company’s agency residential mortgage-backed securities that are in a loss position had a fair value of $37.4 million with unrealized losses of approximately $234 thousand. These residential mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or above at purchase and are not within the scope of ASC 325. The Company monitors to ensure it has adequate credit support and as of December 31, 2012, the Company believes there is no other than temporary impairment (OTTI) and did not have the intent to sell these securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest that we receive on loans and investments than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than 54 Table of Contents long-term interest rates, which would cause net income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant operational risks. We operate many different financial service functions and rely on the ability of our employees, third-party vendors and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to promote ethical conduct and protect our reputation. However, these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental oversight. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both organically and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our key employees. Our future prospects are and will remain highly dependent on our directors and executive officers. Our success will, to some extent, depend on the continued service of our directors and continued employment of the 55 Table of Contents executive officers. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team, no assurance can be given that these individuals will continue to be employed by us. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively affect our ability to achieve our growth strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2012, we held $18.7 million of bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) on certain key and former employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $18.7 million. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2012, we owned $8.4 million in Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB. Our FHLB’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security; we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws, rules and regulations governing our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC, the FDIC and DFI. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary policies determine in a large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board 56 Table of Contents policies can also materially affect the value of financial instruments that we hold, such as debt securities, certain mortgage loans held for sale and mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. Changes in policies of the Federal Reserve Board are beyond our control and the impact of changes in those policies on our activities and results of operations can be difficult to predict. The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. The federal banking regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement a new global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy referred to as Basel III, as well as to implement new capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules would increase minimum capital ratios, add a new minimum common equity ratio, add a new capital conservation buffer, and would change the risk-weightings of certain assets. The proposed changes, if implemented, would be phased in over several years from 2013 through 2019. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or growth prospects. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The Dodd-Frank Act and supporting regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for, among other things, new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, PacTrust Bank’s former primary regulator, the OTS, was eliminated and existing federal thrifts, including PacTrust Bank, became subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, which also supervises and regulates all national banks. In addition, on July 21, 2011, all savings and loan holding companies, including First PacTrust at that time, became subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, which also supervises and regulates all bank holding companies. In addition, upon our acquisition of Beach on July 1, 2012, First PacTrust became a bank holding company and subject to capital requirements at the holding company level. These changes may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. Effective July 21, 2011, financial institutions have been allowed to pay interest on demand deposits, which has increased our interest expense. Recently proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act significantly impact our operations, and we expect to continue to face increased regulation. These regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) with broad authority to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation. The Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the regulation of mortgage banking and gave authority to the new CFPB to implement mortgage regulations. Proposed and anticipated mortgage rules could dramatically alter our residential mortgage business, from application, to underwriting, to closing, and servicing. In addition, many of the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and 57 Table of Contents require extensive additional rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by various regulatory agencies. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretations of those rules, will reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, require us to change certain of our business practices, increase the regulatory supervision of us, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings. We may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio from 1.15% to 1.35%. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on institutions with assets less than $10.0 billion. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the minimum reserve ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio. The FDIC has set a designated reserve ratio of 2.0, which exceeds the minimum reserve ratio. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations that became effective April 1, 2011, under which insurance premiums are based on an institution’s total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. Although our FDIC insurance premiums were initially reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. We rely on dividends from PacTrust Bank and Beach for substantially all of First PacTrust’s revenue. The Company’s primary source of revenue at the holding company level is earnings of available cash and securities and dividends from PacTrust Bank and Beach. The OCC, in the case of PacTrust Bank, and the DFI, in the case of Beach, regulate and, in some cases, must approve the amounts PacTrust Bank and Beach pay as dividends to First PacTrust. If PacTrust Bank or Beach is unable to pay dividends, First PacTrust may not be able to service its debt, including its senior notes, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on its preferred and common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or your investment in our securities. The Company has a significant deferred tax asset and may or may not be fully realized. The Company has a significant deferred tax asset (“DTA”) and cannot assure that it will be fully realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed using enacted tax rates. If we determine that we will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax asset, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to establish a full or partial valuation allowance. If we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary, we are required to incur a charge to operations. We regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset will be realized. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires estimates that cannot be made with certainty. At December 31, 2012, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of $7.6 million, net of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $8.4 million. Although realization is not assured, the Company believes that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012 is more likely than not based upon available tax planning strategies and expectations as to future taxable income. 58 Table of Contents Our ability to utilize our DTAs to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if the Company experiences an “ownership change” under the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had recognized net DTAs of approximately $7.6 million, which are included in our tangible common equity. The Company’s ability to utilize its DTAs to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if the Company experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to herein as the Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in the Company’s ownership by “5-percent or more shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. If this were to occur, the Company would be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change DTAs equal to the value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, provided that the annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our markets. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the our federal banking regulator. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. 59 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be unable to provide new loans, other products or to fund our obligations to existing customers and otherwise implement our business plans, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. As a result, we may be unable to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions of assets or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Increased leverage as a result of the issuance of the Senior Notes may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had $75.0 million of long-term debt in the form of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank in addition to the senior notes. As of December 31, 2012, in addition to $81.8 million in Senior Notes, we also had 32,000 shares of SBLF Preferred Stock, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, issued and outstanding. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the senior notes; • a portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 