ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, continued If we lose our executive officers, it could adversely affect our operations The successful operation of Monarch Community Bancorp and Monarch Community Bank is greatly dependent on the continued availability of capable executive officers. At present, the only executive officers of both Monarch Community Bancorp and Monarch Community Bank are Donald L. Denney, President and Chief Executive Officer, William C. Kurtz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, Andrew Van Doren, Vice President, Secretary and Corporate Counsel, Rebecca S. Crabill, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Denney but not with the other executive officers. We do not have key man insurance on any of our executive officers. The amount of common stock controlled by insiders, our articles of incorporation and bylaws and state and federal statutory and regulatory provisions could discourage hostile acquisitions of control Purchases of common stock by directors and officers are for investment purposes and not necessarily for resale. Inside ownership of Monarch Community Bancorp (totaling 273,374 shares as of December 31, 2007) is significant and this inside ownership and provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire Monarch Community Bancorp, a proxy contest for control of Monarch Community Bancorp, the assumption of control of Monarch Community Bancorp by a holder of a large block of common stock and the removal of Monarch Community Bancorp’s management, all of which certain shareholders might think are in their best interests. These provisions include among other things: • the staggered terms of the members of the Board of Directors; • an 80% shareholder vote requirement for the approval of any merger or consolidation of Monarch Community Bancorp into any entity that directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of Monarch Community Bancorp voting stock if the transaction is not approved in advance by at least a majority of the disinterested members of Monarch Community Bancorp’s Board of Directors; • supermajority shareholder vote requirements for the approval of certain amendments to Monarch Community Bancorp’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; • a prohibition of any holder of common stock voting more than 10% of the outstanding common stock; • elimination of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; • restrictions on the acquisition of our equity securities; • the authorization of five million shares of preferred stock that could be issued without shareholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt; and • the increase in the number of authorized shares and the reclassification of shares without stockholder approval. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where Monarch Community Bancorp is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of Monarch Community Bancorp, and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of bank holding companies such as Monarch Community Bancorp. The low trading volume in our common stock may make the value of the stock volatile and may make it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares when they desire. Historically, there have been times when trading volume has been low. During those times the Company’s stock price has encountered some decline. Average daily trading volume for the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2006 were 8,004 and 4,266 shares respectively. The high and low levels of our stock price for each quarter of the last two fiscal years are disclosed in this document. A more detailed history of the Company’s stock price can be found under our stock symbol (MCBF). 30 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments – None 