ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry in which we operate, both as a result of recently enacted legislation and changing government regulation, which may have a material adverse impact on the businesses of our hospital customers and ultimately on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities, including our hospital customers. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and certain capital expenditures. Recently enacted public laws reforming the U.S. healthcare system may have an impact on our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590; Public Law 111-148) (“PPACA”) and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872) (the “Reconciliation Act”), which amends the PPACA (collectively the “Health Reform Laws”), were signed into law in March 2010. The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions which may impact us and our customers. Some of these provisions may have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact due to fewer available resources. Increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the healthcare sector, including us. Among other things, the Health Reform Laws require nearly all individuals to have health insurance, expand Medicaid eligibility, mandate material changes to the delivery of healthcare services and reduce the reimbursement paid for such services in order to generate savings in the Medicare program. The Health Reform Laws also modify certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. It is likely that the Health Reform Laws will affect hospitals differently depending upon the populations they serve and their payor mix. Our target market of rural and community hospitals typically serve higher uninsured populations than larger urban hospitals and rely more heavily on Medicare and Medicaid for reimbursement. It remains to be seen whether the increase in the insured population for rural and community hospitals will be sufficient to offset proposed cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements contained in the Health Reform Laws. The Health Reform Laws will ultimately lead to significant changes in the healthcare system. While it is too early to fully understand and assess the impact of the Health Reform Laws on our hospital customers, it is possible that the Health Reform Laws could have a material adverse effect on the business of our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Various legislators have announced that they intend to examine further proposals to reform certain aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such additional proposals or healthcare reforms might have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate that these regulations will continue to directly affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management’s attention and divert other company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated at the local, state and national levels. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could create liability for us, result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and is constantly evolving due to the changing political, legislative and regulatory landscapes. In some instances, the impact of these regulations on our business is direct to the extent that we are subject to these laws and regulations ourselves. However, these regulations also impact our business indirectly as, in a number of circumstances, our solutions, devices and services must be capable of being used by our customers in a way that complies with those laws and regulations, even though we may not be directly regulated by the specific healthcare laws and regulations. There is a significant number of wide-ranging regulations, including regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud, e-prescribing, claims processing and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. Specific areas that are subject to increased regulation include, but are not limited to, the following: Healthcare Fraud. Federal and state governments continue to enhance regulation of and increase their scrutiny over practices potentially involving healthcare fraud by healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Our healthcare provider customers are subject to laws and regulations regarding fraud and abuse that, among other things, prohibit the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by these federal or state healthcare programs. Federal enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived fraud and abuse. The effect of this government regulation on our customers is difficult to predict. Many of the regulations applicable to our customers and that may be applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with medical device sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to us or require our customers to make changes in their operations or the way in which they deal with us. If such laws and regulations are determined to be applicable to us and if we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or other liability, including exclusion from government health programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even an unsuccessful challenge by a regulatory or prosecutorial authority of our activities could result in adverse publicity, could require a costly response from us and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. E-Prescribing. The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by federal and state laws. States have differing regulations that govern the electronic transmission of certain prescription orders and prescription format requirements. Regulations implemented by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) related to “EPrescribing and the Prescription Drug Program” set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. These standards are detailed and broad, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions, but also electronic eligibility, benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. In general, regulations in this area can be burdensome and evolve regularly, meaning that any potential benefits to our customers from utilizing such solutions and services may be reversed by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our customers to comply with these regulations could be time consuming and expensive. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Claims Transmission. Our system electronically transmits medical claims by physicians to patients’ payors for immediate approval and reimbursement. In addition, we offer business management services that include the manual and electronic processing and submission of medical claims by physicians to patients’ payors for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payor, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any service or product that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system and through our services are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our customers is also accurate and complete. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to substantial liability including, but not limited to, civil and criminal liability. Additionally, any such failure of our billing and collection services to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development, and other resources to address the failure. In most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our billing and collection services based on a percentage of the collections that our customers receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. CMS has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. A portion of our business involves billing Medicare claims on behalf of its clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately provent to be without merit. As discussed below, the HIPAA security and privacy standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our customers’ HIPAA compliance obligations. Regulation of Medical Devices. The United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) has determined that certain of our solutions, such as our ImageLink® product, are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities including pre-market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations is time consuming and expensive, and our marketing and other sales activities could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Further, it is possible that the FDA may become more active in regulating software and medical devices that are used in the healthcare industry. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such software or medical devices, our short to long term business plans for these solutions or medical devices could be delayed or canceled and we could face FDA refusal to grant pre-market clearance or approval of products; withdrawal of existing clearances and approvals; fines, injunctions, or civil penalties; recalls or product corrections; production suspensions; and criminal prosecution. FDA regulation of our products could increase our operating costs, delay or prevent the marketing of new or existing products and adversely affect our revenue growth. Security and Privacy of Patient Information. Federal, state and local laws regulate the confidentiality and security of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security and privacy measures. United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security standards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information, and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include healthcare organizations such as our customers, and our claims processing, transmission and submission services, are required to comply with the privacy standards, transaction regulations and security regulations. Moreover, HITECH and associated regulatory requirements extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our customers who are covered entities, we were in most instances already contractually required to ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as they pertain to handling of covered customer data. However, the extension of these HIPAA obligations to business associates by law has created additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information. Evolving HIPAA and HITECH-related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our solutions and devices if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our customers to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our solutions to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to breach of contract claims (although we contractually limit liability, when possible and where permitted), fines and penalties. Federal and state statutes and regulations have granted broad enforcement powers to regulatory agencies to investigate and enforce compliance with these privacy and security laws and regulations. Federal and state enforcement personnel have substantial funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived violations. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil penalties, sanctions or other liability. Enforcement investigations, even if meritless, could have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose existing customers or limit our ability to attract new customers. Interoperability Standards. Our customers often require that our software solutions and services be interoperable with other third party healthcare information technology. Market forces or governmental or regulatory authorities could create interoperability standards that would apply to our software solutions or services, and if our software solutions or services are not consistent with those standards, we could be forced to incur substantial additional development costs to conform. The Certification Commission for Healthcare Information Technology (CCHIT) has developed a comprehensive set of criteria for the functionality, interoperability and security of various software modules in the healthcare information technology industry. CCHIT, however, continues to modify and refine those standards. During 2010, both our hospital and medical practice EHR solutions were certified by CCHIT as a complete EHR for purposes of achieving stage one of meaningful use of EHR. Maintaining CCHIT certification is becoming a competitive requirement, resulting in increased software development and administrative expense to conform to these standards. ARRA Meaningful Use Program. Various federal and state government agencies are developing standards that could become mandatory for systems purchased by entities that are funded by these agencies. For example, the ARRA requires “meaningful use of certified electronic health record technology” by healthcare providers by 2015 in order to receive incentive payments. Regulations have been issued that identify standards and implementation specifications and establish the certification standards for qualifying EHR technology. Nevertheless, these standards and specifications are subject to interpretation by the entities designated to certify such technology, such as CCHIT. While a combination of our solutions has been certified as meeting the initial standards for certified health record technology, the regulatory standards to achieve certification will continue to evolve over time. We may incur increased development costs and delays in delivering solutions if we need to upgrade our software or healthcare devices to be in compliance with these varying and evolving standards. In 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements addition, delays in interpreting these standards may result in postponement or cancellation of our customers’ decisions to purchase our software solutions. If our software solutions are not compliant with these evolving standards, our market position and sales could be impaired and we may have to invest significantly in changes to our software solution, although we do not expect such costs to be significant in relation to the overall development costs for our software solutions. Standards for Submission of Healthcare Claims. CMS has mandated the use of new patient codes for reporting medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures, referred to as the ICD-10 codes. CMS is requiring all providers, payors, clearinghouses and billing services to utilize these ICD-10 codes when submitting claims for payment. ICD-10 codes will affect diagnosis and inpatient procedure coding for everyone covered by HIPAA, not just those who submit Medicare or Medicaid claims. Claims for services provided on or after October 1, 2013 must use ICD-10 codes for medical diagnosis and inpatient procedures or they will not be paid. We do not anticipate significant remaining costs associated with implementing the use of the ICD-10 codes within our products and services. However, if our products and services do not accommodate CMS mandates at any future date, customers may cease to use those products and services that are not compliant and may choose alternative vendors and products that are compliant. This could adversely impact future revenues. Economic, market and other factors may cause a decline in spending for information technology and services by our current and prospective customers which may result in less demand for our products, lower prices and, consequently, lower revenues and a lower revenue growth rate. The purchase of our information system involves a significant financial commitment by our customers. At the same time, the healthcare industry faces significant financial pressures that could adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services. For example, the recent economic recession and continued decrease in availability of credit, combined with potential reductions in federal and state funding for Medicare and Medicaid, has caused hospitals to reduce, eliminate or postpone information technology related and other spending. To the extent spending for healthcare information technology and services declines or increases slower than we anticipate, demand for our products and services, as well as the prices we charge, could be adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues or our growth rate. There are a limited number of hospitals in our target market. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in the loss of existing customers, a reduction in our potential customer base and downward pressure on our products’ prices. There are a finite number of hospitals with 300 or fewer acute care beds in our general target market. Saturation of this market with our products or our competitors’ products could eventually limit our revenues and growth. Furthermore, many healthcare providers have consolidated to create larger healthcare delivery enterprises with greater market power. If this consolidation continues, we could lose existing customers and could experience a decrease in the number of potential purchasers of our products and services. The loss of existing and potential customers due to industry consolidation could cause our revenue growth rate to decline. In addition, larger, consolidated enterprises could have greater bargaining power, which may lead to downward pressure on the prices for our products and services. Volatility in and disruption to the global capital and credit markets and tightened lending standards may adversely affect our ability to access credit in the future, the cost of any credit obtained in the future, and the financial soundness of our customers and our business. While the Company does not currently have any debt, ongoing volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets, tightened lending standards, reduced lending activity by financial institutions and decreased liquidity may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit should we seek it in the future. Although 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we believe that our operating cash flow and financial assets will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that the continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase the costs of any future borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted to the extent that our hospital customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets, the recent economic recession or cuts in Medicare and Medicaid funding. As a result, hospitals may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our software systems or services. Additionally, if hospitals’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Tightened lending standards and the absence of third-party credit has resulted in many of our hospital customers seeking financing arrangements from us to purchase our software systems and services. These financing arrangements impact our short-term operating cash flow and cash available. Should the requests for these financing arrangements continue or increase, our business could be negatively impacted by our inability to finance these arrangements. In addition, the absence of credit could negatively impact our existing financing receivables should our customers with financing arrangements be unable to meet their obligations. Competition with companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have could result in a loss of customers and/or a lowering of prices for our products, causing a decrease in our revenues and/or market share. Our principal competitors are Meditech, Healthland and HMS. Meditech, Healthland and HMS compete with us directly in our target market of rural and community hospitals with 300 or fewer acute care beds. These companies offer products and services that are comparable to our system and are designed to address the needs of rural and community hospitals. Our secondary competitors include McKesson Corporation, Quadramed Corp., Cerner Corporation, Quality Systems, Inc., Siemens Corporaiton, Prognosis Health Information Systems LLC, and Razor Insights, LLC. Most of these companies are significantly larger than we are, and they typically sell their products and services to larger hospitals outside of our target market. However, they sometimes compete directly with us. We also face competition from providers of practice management systems, general decision support and database systems and other segment-specific applications, as well as from healthcare technology consultants. Any of these companies, as well as other technology or healthcare companies, could decide at any time to specifically target hospitals within our target market. A number of existing and potential competitors are more established than we are and have greater name recognition and financial, technical and marketing resources. Products of our competitors may have better performance, lower prices and broader market acceptance than our products. We expect increased competition that could cause us to lose customers, lower our prices to remain competitive and, consequently, experience lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins. Additionally, the substantial amount of money contemplated by the ARRA to be spent on healthcare information technology may further increase competition by attracting new and financially stronger companies to this industry. Our failure to develop new products or enhance current products in response to market demands could adversely impact our competitive position and require substantial capital resources to correct. The needs of hospitals in our target market are subject to rapid change due to government regulation, trends in clinical care practices and technological advancements. As a result of these changes, our products may quickly become obsolete or less competitive. New product introductions and enhancements by our competitors that more effectively or timely respond to changing industry needs may weaken our competitive position. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We continually redesign and enhance our products to incorporate new technologies and adapt our products to ever-changing hardware and software platforms. Often we face difficult choices regarding which new technologies to adopt. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, or experience significant delays in product development or introduction, our competitive position could be negatively affected. Moreover, our failure to offer products acceptable to our target market could require us to make significant capital investments and incur higher operating costs to redesign our products, which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. Our products assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, our customers could assert claims against us that could result in substantial cost to us, harm our reputation in the industry and cause demand for our products to decline. We provide products that assist clinical decision-making and related care by capturing, maintaining and reporting relevant patient data. Our products could fail or produce inaccurate results due to a variety of reasons, including mechanical error, product flaws, faulty installation and/or human error during the initial data conversion. If our products fail to provide accurate and timely information, customers and/or patients could sue us to hold us responsible for losses they incur from these errors. These lawsuits, regardless of merit or outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention from operations and decrease market acceptance of our products. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. Breaches of security and viruses in our systems could result in customer claims against us and harm to our reputation causing us to incur expenses and/or lose customers. In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health information. We have included security features in our systems that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of this information. Despite the existence of these security features, our system may experience breakins and similar disruptive problems that could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer networks of our customers. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface, such as the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors or similar disruptive problems. Because of the sensitivity of medical information, customers could sue us for breaches of security involving our system. Also, actual or perceived security breaches in our system could harm the market perception of our products which could cause us to lose existing and prospective customers. Additionally, the effect of security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our products and services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that these systems will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future. New products that we introduce or enhancements to our existing products may contain undetected errors or problems that could affect customer satisfaction and cause a decrease in revenues. Highly complex software products such as ours sometimes contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or when updates and new versions are released. Tests of our products may not detect bugs or errors because it is difficult to simulate our customers’ wide variety of computing environments. Despite extensive testing, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our products. Defects or errors discovered in our products could cause delays in product introductions and shipments, result in increased costs and diversion of 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with our products, cause a loss of revenue, result in legal actions by our customers and cause increased insurance costs. Our facilities are located in an area vulnerable to hurricanes and tropical storms, and the occurrence of a severe hurricane, similar storm or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or limit our operations. The vast majority of our facilities and employees are located 30 miles north of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Our facilities are vulnerable to significant damage or destruction from hurricanes and tropical storms. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including tornadoes, fires, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to conduct business at our facilities could be seriously impaired or completely destroyed. This would have adverse consequences for our customers who depend on us for system support or business management services. Also, the servers of customers who use our remote access services could be damaged or destroyed in any such disaster. This would have potentially devastating consequences to those customers. Although we have an emergency recovery plan, including back-up systems in remote locations, there can be no assurance that this plan will effectively prevent the interruption of our business due to a natural disaster. Furthermore, the insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from any natural disaster or other business interruption. Interruptions in our power supply and/or telecommunications capabilities could disrupt our operations, cause us to lose revenues and/or increase our expenses. We currently have backup generators to be used as alternative sources of power in the event of a loss of power to our facilities. If these generators were to fail during any power outage, we would be temporarily unable to continue operations at our facilities. This would have adverse consequences for our customers who depend on us for system support, business management and information technology management and professional services. Any such interruption in operations at our facilities could damage our reputation, harm our ability to retain existing customers and obtain new customers, and could result in lost revenue and increased insurance and other operating costs. We also have customers for whom we store and maintain computer servers containing critical patient and administrative data. Those customers access this data remotely through telecommunications lines. If our power generators fail during any power outage or if our telecommunications lines are severed or impaired for any reason, those customers would be unable to access their mission critical data causing an interruption in their operations. In such event our remote access customers and/or their patients could seek to hold us responsible for any losses. We would also potentially lose those customers, and our reputation could be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified customer service and support personnel, our business and operating results will suffer. Our customer service and support is a key component of our business. Most of our hospital customers have small information technology staffs, and they depend on us to service and support their systems. Future difficulty in attracting, training and retaining capable customer service and support personnel could cause a decrease in the overall quality of our customer service and support. That decrease would have a negative effect on customer satisfaction which could cause us to lose existing customers and could have an adverse effect on our new customer sales. The loss of customers due to inadequate customer service and support would negatively impact our ability to continue to grow our business. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with our key personnel, and their departure could harm our future success. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the leadership and performance of our chief executive officer and other executive officers. We do not have employment or non-competition agreements with any of our 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements executive officers. Therefore, they may terminate their employment with us at any time and may compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we believe that proprietary rights are material to our success, misappropriation of these rights could limit our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our financial condition. We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on a combination of confidentiality provisions in our customer agreements, employee nondisclosure agreements, trademark and trade secret laws and other measures to protect our intellectual property. Additionally, our software is not patented or copyrighted. Although we attempt to control access to our intellectual property, unauthorized persons may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use. If our competitors gain access to our intellectual property, our competitive position in the industry could be damaged. An inability to compete effectively could cause us to lose existing and potential customers and experience lower revenues, revenue growth and profit margins. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, and we cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. If we are deemed to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services if we cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. Further, as the number and functionality of our products increase, we believe we may become increasingly subject to the risk of infringement claims. If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract management. We may have to spend a significant amount of money and time to defend or settle those claims. In addition, claims against third parties from which we purchase software could adversely affect our ability to access third party software for our systems. If we were found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to pay significant license fees or damages for infringement. If we were unable to obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms, we would be required to discontinue the sale of our products that contain the infringing technology. Our customers would also be required to discontinue the use of those products. We are unable to insure against this risk on an economically feasible basis. Even if we were to prevail in an infringement lawsuit, the accompanying publicity could adversely impact the demand for our system. Under some circumstances, we agree to indemnify our customers for some types of infringement claims that may arise from the use of our products. We are subject to the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, which is not within our control, and which may diminish Internet usage and availability as well as access to our web site. We deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, we are dependent on the maintenance of the Internet by third parties. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it and our performance may decrease if the Internet continues to experience its historic trend of expanding usage. Internet related 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements problems may diminish Internet usage and availability of the Internet to us for transmittal of our Internet-based services. In addition, difficulties, outages, and delays by Internet service providers, online service providers and other web site operators may obstruct or diminish access to our web site by our customers resulting in a loss of potential or existing users of our services. We may be subject to liability in the event we provide inaccurate claims data to payors. We offer electronic claims submission services as part of our business management services. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payors. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payors, we may be subject to liability claims. We are dependent on our license rights and products and other services from third parties, which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our products as well as other products and services from third-party vendors. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to continue using the technology, products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain equivalent technology or services. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue providing their technology, products or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products. We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. Based on our reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, we believe our current sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause us to fail to meet revenues or earnings expectations which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. There is no assurance that consistent quarterly growth in our business will occur. Our quarterly revenues may fluctuate and may be difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons. For example, prospective customers often take significant time evaluating our system and related services before making a purchase decision. Moreover, a prospective customer who has placed an order for our system could decide to cancel that order or postpone installation of the ordered system. If a prospective customer delays or cancels a scheduled system installation during any quarter, we may not be able to schedule a substitute system installation during that quarter. The amount of revenues that would have been generated from that installation will be postponed or lost. The possibility of delays or cancellations of scheduled system installations could cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The following factors may also affect demand for our products and services and cause our quarterly revenues to fluctuate: • changes in customer budgets and purchasing priorities; • the ability of our customers to obtain financing for the purchase of our products; • the financial stability of our customers; • the specific mix of software, hardware and services in orders from customers; • the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new products, product enhancements and services from us and our competitors; • product and price competition; • our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; • the availability and cost of system components; • delay of revenue recognition to future quarters due to an increase in the sale of our remote access SaaS services; • the length of sales cycles and installation processes; • changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rulemaking bodies; • accounting policies concerning the timing of recognition of revenue; • personnel changes; and • general market and economic factors. Variations in our quarterly revenues may adversely affect our operating results. In each fiscal quarter, our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. Because a significant percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. We currently recognize revenue pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 985-605, Software, Revenue Recognition, or ASC 985-605. ASC 985-605 summarizes the FASB’s views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of this pronouncement will not further modify our revenue recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year. Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be adversely affected. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares of our common stock and in litigation against us. Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not limited to: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • governmental regulatory action; • healthcare reform measures; • customer relationship developments; • purchases or sales of Company stock; • changes occurring in the markets in general; • macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and • other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced significant volatility in recent years that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 