Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operating Environment Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to pursue an organic and acquisition growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions, branch acquisitions and other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. There are risks associated with our growth strategy. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involves various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of integrating acquired banks or branches into the Bank, the risk of loss of customers and/or employees of the acquired institution or branch, executing cost savings measures, not achieving revenue enhancements and otherwise not realizing the transaction’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. Our growth initiatives may also require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risks related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we will have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our pending acquisition of Gateway Bancorp. On June 3, 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Gateway Bancorp, the holding company for Gateway Business Bank. The closing of the transaction is subject to the 28 Table of Contents satisfaction of certain conditions, including the receipt of all necessary or advisable regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given as to when or whether these approvals will be received. The success of our pending acquisition of Gateway Bancorp will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and Gateway Business Bank in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of either institution or result in decreased revenues from our respective customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Bank and Gateway Bancorp have operated and, until the completion of the merger of the two institutions, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each institution’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts between the two institutions will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on the combined institution following completion of the acquisition. One of the anticipated benefits of the Gateway Bancorp acquisition is the diversification of our revenue stream through non-interest income realized from the mortgage banking operations of Mission Hills Mortgage Bankers, a division of Gateway Business Bank. Most of the revenues generated by Mission Hills come from gains on the sale of single-family mortgage loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and investors other than government sponsored enterprises on a servicing-released basis. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Any future changes in these programs, reduction in number of entities to sell to, eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, materially reduce the revenues generated by Mission Hills. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. This would result in a decrease in mortgage banking revenues and a corresponding decrease in our non-interest income following the Gateway Bancorp acquisition. Our post-acquisition results of operations also will be affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our pending acquisition of Beach Business Bank. On August 30, 2011, we entered into a merger agreement to acquire Beach Business Bank. The closing of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the receipt of all necessary or advisable regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given as to when or whether these approvals will be received. The success of our pending acquisition of Beach Business Bank will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the Bank and Beach Business Bank in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of either institution or result in decreased revenues from our respective customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The Bank and Beach Business Bank have operated and, until the completion of the merger of the two institutions, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each institution’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts between the two institutions will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on the combined institution following completion of the acquisition. 29 Table of Contents The Bank is subject to a regulatory memorandum of understanding, which imposes certain requirements and restrictions on the Bank. In August 2009, the Bank entered into a memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) with the OTS(which was succeeded by the OCC as the Bank’s primary regulator effective July 21, 2011) to address certain concerns of the OTS following its examination of the Bank. The MOU requires the Bank to: (i) submit a three-year business plan to the OTS and provide to the OTS quarterly variance reports of the Bank’s compliance with that plan; (ii) submit a non-traditional mortgage analysis plan to the OTS designed to ensure compliance with applicable regulatory guidance concerning the risks of that loan product type; (iii) adopt a concentrations risk management policy addressing concentration risks for loan types other than conforming single family residential loans and for all funding sources; (iv) submit a plan to the OTS to ensure the Bank’s allowance for loan losses methodology is consistent with regulatory requirements and guidance and that the allowance is adequate at each quarter end; (v) adopt a pre-purchase analysis procedure that requires full documentation of all factors and research considered by management prior to the purchase of complex securities; (vi) provide the OTS with quarterly updates of problem assets; and (vii) refrain from increasing the dollar amount of brokered deposits above the amount held by the Bank as of June 30, 2009, excluding interest credited, without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. The Bank believes it is currently in full compliance with the MOU but will remain subject to the MOU until such time as all or any portion of the MOU has been modified, suspended or terminated by the Bank’s regulator. Failure by the Bank to comply fully with the terms of the MOU or any of the plans or policies adopted by the Bank pursuant to the MOU could result in further regulatory action against the Bank. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in the Bank’s market area. The current economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan portfolio. Our primary market area is concentrated in the greater San Diego market area. Adverse economic conditions in that market area can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers’ ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Weak economic conditions and ongoing strains in the financial and housing markets have resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • demand for our products and services may decline; • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • collateral for our loans may further decline in value; and • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease. We cannot accurately predict the effect of the weakness in the national economy on our future operating results or the market price of our voting common stock. The national economy in general and the financial services sector in particular are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in national or local economic conditions would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our voting 30 Table of Contents common stock to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long these conditions may exist, the current economic downturn could present substantial risks for some time for the banking industry and for us. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable incurred potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable incurred loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.62% of gross loans held for investment and 66.38% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than that of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property and declining property values. At December 31, 2011, $563.0 million, or 71.5% of our total gross loan portfolio, was secured by single-family mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which will in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of adjustable rate loans. A substantial majority of our real estate secured loans held are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of defaults that may adversely affect our profitability. Our non-traditional, interest-only single-family residential loans expose us to increased lending risk. Many of the residential mortgage loans we have originated for investment consisted of non-traditional single family loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the borrower or property, the loan terms, loan size or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines, including our Green Account loans. The Green Account is a first mortgage line of credit with an associated “clearing account” that allows all types of deposits and withdrawals to be performed, including direct deposit, check, debit card, ATM, ACH debits and credits, and internet banking and bill payment transactions. At December 31, 2011, we had $247.5 million of Green Account loans, which represented 31.4% of our gross loan portfolio as of that date. Green Account home equity loans generally have a fifteen year draw period with interest-only payment requirements, a balloon payment requirement at the end of the draw period and a maximum 80% loan to value ratio. In addition to the Green Account loans, we had other interest-only single family residential mortgage loans totaling $125.6 million at December 31, 2011, representing 15.95% of our gross loan portfolio as of that date, and single family residential negative amortization loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment may be added to loan principal) totaling $21.5 million, representing 2.73% of our gross loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011. We ceased originating negative amortization loans in 2006. In the case of interest-only loans, a borrower’s monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status. Since the borrower’s monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, the borrower might not be able to afford the increased monthly payment. In addition, interest-only loans have a large, balloon payment at the end of the loan term, which the borrower may be unable to pay. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally. Negative amortization is only permitted up to 110% of the original loan to value ratio during the first five years the loan is outstanding, with payments adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents, potentially resulting in higher payments by the borrower. The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments. Also, real estate values may decline, and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their loans to pay off their mortgage obligations. For these reasons, interest-only loans and negative amortization loans are considered to have an increased risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure than 32 Table of Contents conforming loans and may result in higher levels of realized losses. Furthermore, these loans are not as readily saleable as loans that conform to agency guidelines and often can be sold only after discounting the amortized value of the loan. As of December 31, 2011, 0.53% of our interest-only loans, totaling $2.0 million, were in non-performing status. None of our negatively amortizing loans were in non-performing status as of December 31, 2011. Our income property loans, consisting of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and multi-family real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily real estate loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial and multi-family real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and multi-family real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2011, our commercial and multi-family real estate loans totaled $220.3 million, or 28.0% of our total gross loan portfolio. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property is taken in as other real estate owned (“OREO”), and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value (fair value) of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs. A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s investment securities portfolio consisted of fifty-four securities, thirty-seven of which were in an unrealized loss position. The majority of unrealized losses are related to the Company’s private label residential mortgage-backed securities, as discussed below. 33 Table of Contents The Company’s private label residential mortgage-backed securities that are in a loss position had a fair value of $73.1 million with unrealized losses of approximately $1.9 million at December 31, 2011. These non-agency private label residential mortgage-backed securities were rated AAA at purchase and are not within the scope of ASC 325. The Company monitors to ensure it has adequate credit support and as of December 31, 2011, the Company believes there is no other than temporary impairment (OTTI) and did not have the intent to sell these securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. See further discussion in Note 5-Securities. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest that we receive on loans and investments than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause net income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant operational risks. We operate many different financial service functions and rely on the ability of our employees, third-party vendors and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both organically and through acquisitions. If we raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among 34 Table of Contents other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our key employees. Our future prospects are and will remain highly dependent on our directors and executive officers. Our success will, to some extent, depend on the continued service of our directors and continued employment of the executive officers. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. Although we have entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team, no assurance can be given that these individuals will continue to be employed by us. The loss of any of these individuals could negatively affect our ability to achieve our growth strategy and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2011, we held $18.5 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on certain key and former employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $18.4 million. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2011, we owned $7.0 million in FHLB stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB, which currently is not redeeming any excess member stock. Our FHLB’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security; we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could 35 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws and regulations governing our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or growth prospects. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. The recently enacted regulatory reform legislation described below will, among other things, change our primary regulator, create a new consumer finance protection agency and impose capital requirements on us at the holding company level. These changes could adversely impact our operations and net income. The Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse effect on us. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted into law on July 21, 2010, provides for, among other things, new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective July 21, 2011, the Bank’s primary regulator, the OTS, was eliminated and existing federal thrifts, including the Bank, became subject to regulation and supervision by the OCC, which also supervises and regulates all national banks. In addition, on July 21, 2011, all savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, became subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, which also supervises and regulates all bank holding companies. This change in regulation of savings and loan holding companies may result in the imposition of holding company capital requirements and additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau is likely to result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, new regulations mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices and compensation practices. Effective July 21, 2011, financial institutions may pay interest on demand deposits, which could increase our interest expense. At this time, we cannot determine the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will negatively impact our earnings. During 2009, our FDIC insurance premiums increased significantly and we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum reserve ratio from 1.15% to 1.35%. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio on institutions with 36 Table of Contents assets less than $10.0 billion. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the minimum reserve ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio. The FDIC has set a designated reserve ratio of 2.0, which exceeds the minimum reserve ratio. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution’s total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. The Company’s primary source of revenue is earnings of available cash and securities and dividends from the Bank. The OCC regulates and must approve the amount of Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, the Company may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s preferred and common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. The Company has a significant deferred tax asset and may or may not be fully realized. The Company has a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure that it will be fully realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities computed using enacted tax rates. If we determine that we will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax asset, we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to establish a full or partial valuation allowance. If we determine that a valuation allowance is necessary, we are required to incur a charge to operations. We regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset will be realized. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires estimates that cannot be made with certainty. At December 31, 2011, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of $7.6 million, net of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $1.3 million. Although realization is not assured, the Company believes that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011 is more likely than not based upon available tax planning strategies and expectations as to future taxable income. Our ability to utilize its DTAs to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if the Company experiences an “ownership change” under the Internal Revenue Code. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had recognized net DTAs of approximately $7.6 million, which are included in its tangible common equity. The Company’s ability to utilize its DTAs to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if the Company experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“the Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in the Company’s ownership by “5-percent or more shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. If this were to occur, the Company would be subject to an annual limitation on its pre-ownership change DTAs equal to the value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, provided that the annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. 37 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our shareholders’ equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Our SBLF Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share. The dividends declared on the preferred stock we issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the Small Business Lending Fund (“SBLF”) program (the “SBLF Preferred Stock”) reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The SBLF Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First PacTrust Bancorp. 38 Table of Contents The dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Stock will fluctuate initially from 1% to 5% based on our level of “Qualified Small Business Lending,” or “QSBL,” as compared to our “baseline” level. The cost of the capital we received from the SBLF Preferred Stock will increase significantly if the level of our “QSBL” as of September 30, 2013 does not represent an increase from our “baseline” level. This cost also will increase significantly if we have not redeemed the SBLF Preferred Stock before the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction. The per annum dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Stock can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the SBLF Preferred Stock is outstanding, based upon changes in the amount of “QSBL” by the Bank from a “baseline” level (the average of the Bank’s quarter-end QSBL for the four quarters ended June 30, 2010, which was $36.1 million). The dividend rate for the initial dividend period (which ended on September 30, 2011) was 5%, the dividend rate for the second dividend period (which ended on December 31, 2011) was 3.888375%. For the third dividend period through the tenth dividend period, the dividend rate may be adjusted to between one percent and five percent, to reflect the amount of percentage change in the Bank’s level of QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the second quarter proceeding the dividend period in question. For the eleventh dividend period to the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction, the dividend rate will be fixed at between 1% and 5%, based upon the percentage increase in QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (i.e., as of September 30, 2013); however, if there is no increase in QSBL from the baseline level to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (or if QSBL has decreased during that time period), the dividend rate will be fixed at 7.0%. From and after the fourth anniversary of the SBLF transaction, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9.0%, regardless of the level of QSBL. Depending on our financial condition at the time, any such increases in the dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on and repurchasing our common stock. The Company is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, the Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, the Company is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common or preferred stock. Also, the Company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. Under the terms of the SBLF Preferred Stock and the securities purchase agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury in connection with the SBLF transaction our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock is subject to a limit requiring us generally not to reduce our Tier 1 capital from the level on the SBLF closing date by more than 10%. In addition, if we fail to pay an SBLF dividend, there are further restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our board of directors could reduce, suspend or eliminate our common stock cash dividend in the future. Holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we fail to pay full dividends on the SBLF Preferred Stock for six or more dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Stock is at least $25.0 million, the holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock will have no voting 39 Table of Contents rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the SBLF Preferred Stock and except as may be required by law. If, however, dividends on the SBLF Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and if the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Stock is at least $25.0 million, then the total number of positions on the Company’s Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the SBLF Preferred Stock, acting as a single class, will have the right, but not the obligation, to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive dividend periods. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the our federal banking regulator. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Our executive officers and directors and the directors of the Bank could have the ability to influence shareholder actions in a manner that may be adverse to your personal investment objectives. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers and the directors of the Bank as a group beneficially owned 575,407 shares of our voting common stock, representing approximately 4.94% of the total shares of voting common stock outstanding as of that date. Due to their collective ownership interest, these individuals may be able to exercise influence over the management and business affairs of our company and the Bank. For example, using their collective voting power, these individuals may be able to influence the outcome of director elections or block significant transactions, such as a merger or acquisition, or any other matter that might otherwise be favored by other shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 40 Table of Contents 