Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, some of which are discussed below. Other risks are presented elsewhere in this report and in the information incorporated by reference into this report. You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K, before deciding to buy, sell or hold our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial 3 condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE DEPENDENT ON DIVIDENDS PAID TO BIW LIMITED BY BIRMINGHAM UTILITIES. Funds required by BIW Limited to enable it to pay dividends on BIW Limited common stock are derived predominantly from the dividends paid by Birmingham Utilities to BIW Limited. Accordingly, the ability of BIW Limited to pay dividends, as a practical matter, will be governed by the ability of Birmingham Utilities to pay common stock dividends. The ability of Birmingham Utilities to pay dividends to BIW Limited will continue to be subject to outstanding common stock dividend restrictions currently contained in Birmingham Utilities' mortgage bond indenture. Because Birmingham Utilities will remain subject to regulation by the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control (DPUC), the amount of its earnings and dividends will continue to be affected by the manner in which the DPUC regulates Birmingham Utilities. Therefore, there can be no assurance as to the payment of future dividends by BIW Limited. Furthermore, any losses incurred by BIW Limited's unregulated businesses will not be recoverable through the water rates of Birmingham Utilities. OUR BUSINESS REQUIRES SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND THE RATES WE CHARGE OUR CUSTOMERS ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION. The water utility business is capital intensive. In addition to any capital required to fund potential acquisitions, on an annual basis, we spend significant sums for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the availability of adequate capital and the recovery of our capital investments through the rates we charge our customers. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient capital in the future on reasonable terms and conditions for expansion, construction and maintenance. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, our expansion efforts could be curtailed, which may affect our growth and may affect our future results of operations. The rates our regulated operations charge our customers are subject to approval by the DPUC. We file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses. Once a rate increase petition is filed with the DPUC, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may take up to 180 days and may be costly. We can provide no assurances that any future rate increase request will be approved; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that these rate increases will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought the rate increase. OUR OPERATING COSTS COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH NEW OR STRICTER REGULATORY STANDARDS IMPOSED BY FEDERAL AND STATE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCIES. Our water services are governed by various federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and similar state laws, and federal and state regulations issued under these laws by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations establish, among other things, criteria and standards for drinking water and for discharges into the waters of the United States and states. Pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in total compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. 4 Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. These laws, and the enforcement thereof, have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will raise our operating costs. Although these costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the DPUC would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such costs. In summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with, or discharging liability under, current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO SEASONAL FLUCTUATIONS, WHICH COULD AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR WATER SERVICE AND OUR REVENUES. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature and rainfall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. DROUGHT CONDITIONS MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO SERVE OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE CUSTOMERS. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers. Drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers. An interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for our water, even if our water reserves are sufficient to serve our customers during these drought conditions, which may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. CONTAMINATION TO OUR WATER SUPPLY MAY RESULT IN DISRUPTION IN OUR SERVICES. Our water supplies are potentially subject to contamination, including contamination from the development of naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as MTBE, and possible terrorist attacks. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. If we are unable to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The costs we incur to decontaminate a water source or an underground water system could be significant and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and may not be recoverable in rates. We could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. For example, private plaintiffs have the right to bring personal injury or other toxic tort claims arising from the presence of hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. Our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims. WE DEPEND SIGNIFICANTLY ON THE SERVICES OF THE MEMBERS OF OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM. 5 Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 