Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to First PacTrust Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in the Bank’s market area. The current economic recession in the market area we serve may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan portfolio. Our primary market area is concentrated in the greater San Diego market area. Adverse economic conditions in that market area can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers’ ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Our market area is undergoing a recession, which has resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures, decreased demand for our products and services and a decline in the value of our loan collateral. If this recession continues or becomes more severe, this negative impact on our business, financial condition and earnings may increase. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. 33 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.7% of gross loans held for investment and 25.7% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than that of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially and additional increases in the provision and loan charge-offs may be required, adversely impacting operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $17.3 million compared to $13.5 million for the 2008 fiscal year. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $22.5 million in 2009, 34 Table of Contents compared to $1.5 million in 2008. During 2008 and 2009, we have experienced increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses, particularly in our construction loan portfolio. As a result, nonperforming loans increased from $46.8 million at the end of 2008 to $50.9 million at the end of 2009. If the declining trends in the housing, real estate and local business markets continue, we expect increased levels of delinquencies and credit losses to continue, which adversely impacts our condition and operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned (“REO”), and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s security portfolio consisted of eighteen securities, five of which were in an unrealized loss position. The majority of unrealized losses are related to the Company’s private label mortgage-backed securities, as discussed below. The Company’s private label mortgage-backed securities that are in a loss position had a market value of $10.4 million with unrealized losses of approximately $381 thousand at December 31, 2009. These non-agency private label mortgage-backed securities were rated AAA at purchase and are not within the scope of ASC 325. The Company monitors to insure it has adequate credit support and as of December 31, 2009, the Company believes there is no OTTI and does not have the intent to sell these securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company determined that securities with a book value of $15 thousand was other-than-temporarily impaired due to current market conditions and the restricted ability to sell the security and was written off. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2009, $652.5 million, or 86.0% of our total gross loan portfolio, was secured by one-to-four single-family mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. 35 Table of Contents Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money in interest we receive on loans and investments that we make than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates, which would cause income to go down. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income, because they may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our condition and operations. For a further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7. We face significant operational risks. We operate many different financial service functions and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. During 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank reduced available lines of credit to all financial institutions due to current market conditions, however, the Company’s liquidity levels remain adequate. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to repay our TARP funds, support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. 36 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. For further information, see “Description of Capital Stock—Preferred Stock.” In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2009, we held $17.9 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $17.9 million. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. 37 Table of Contents If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2009, we owned $9.4 million in Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our Federal Home Loan Bank. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our Federal Home Loan Bank, which currently is not redeeming any excess member stock. Our Federal Home Loan Bank’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our Federal Home Loan Bank stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. We operate in a highly regulated environment and our operations and income may be affected adversely by changes in laws and regulations governing our operations, including regulatory reform initiatives of the Obama administration that are pending in Congress. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. For example, initiative to limit our fees on overdraft protection programs or our creditor rights could impact our fee income or ability to resolve problem assets. Pending regulatory reform legislation drafted by the Obama administration and under consideration by Congress, if enacted, could change our primary regulator, create a new consumer finance protection agency, change the Company into a bank holding company with new capital requirements and require the bank to convert to a different charter. These changes could possibly adversely impact our operations and net income. Our earnings are adversely impacted by increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for fiscal 2009 was $1.6 million, including the special assessment of $406 thousand recorded in June 2009. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will hurt our earnings. Additionally, as a potential alternative to special assessments, in November 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that requires financial institutions to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which will be amortized for the period and adjusted for changes in premium levels or our financial condition. As a result, this prepayment will not immediately impact our earnings. 38 Table of Contents Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or any trust preferred securities then outstanding. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First PacTrust. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 6.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock before December 2013, the cost of the TARP capital will increase substantially from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.0 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $1.7 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on dividends from the bank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. First PacTrust’s primary source of revenue is dividends from the Bank. The OTS regulates and must approve the amount of Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, First PacTrust may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s preferred and common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. 39 Table of Contents Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sales of our shares could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Both the Series A Preferred Stock and Our Common Stock The Series A Preferred Stock is equity and is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness; regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock; and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are equity interests in First PacTrust Bancorp and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Series A Preferred Stock, like our common stock, ranks junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on First PacTrust Bancorp with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on First PacTrust Bancorp, including in a liquidation of First PacTrust Bancorp. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series A Preferred Stock, as with our common stock, (1) dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by, our Board of Directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant, and (2) as a Maryland corporation, under Maryland law we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds. See “Regulatory Considerations.” First PacTrust Bancorp is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Pacific Trust Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, First PacTrust Bancorp is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to First PacTrust Bancorp, First PacTrust Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Also, First PacTrust Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock does not limit the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or to which the Series A Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated. The prices of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the Series A Preferred Stock and/or common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. There currently is no market for the Series A Preferred Stock, and we cannot predict how the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of the Series A Preferred Stock 40 Table of Contents and our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions described under “Description of Capital Stock—Anti-Takeover Effects.” Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. For further information, see “Description of Capital Stock—Preferred Stock.” In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. 41 Table of Contents These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Risks Specific to the Series A Preferred Stock An active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock may not develop. The Series A Preferred Stock is not currently listed on any securities exchange and we do not anticipate listing the Series A Preferred Stock on an exchange unless we are requested to do so by Treasury pursuant to the securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock will develop, or, if developed, that an active trading market will be maintained. If an active market is not developed or sustained, the market value and liquidity of the Series A Preferred Stock may be adversely affected. The Series A Preferred Stock may be junior in rights and preferences to our future preferred stock. Subject to approval by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding, voting together as a separate class, we may issue preferred stock in the future the terms of which are expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of any such future preferred stock expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock may restrict dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, the terms of any such senior preferred stock may provide that, unless full dividends for all of our outstanding preferred stock senior to the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid for the relevant periods, no dividends will be paid on the Series A Preferred Stock, and no shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired by us. This could result in dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock not being paid when contemplated. In addition, in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the terms of the senior preferred stock may prohibit us from making payments on the Series A Preferred Stock until all amounts due to holders of the senior preferred stock in such circumstances are paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by Maryland law. If dividends on the Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the First PacTrust Bancorp Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. See “Description of Series A Preferred Stock—Voting Rights.” Based on the current number of members of the First PacTrust Bancorp Board of Directors (six), directors elected by the holders of the common stock would have a controlling majority of the Board and would be able to take any action approved by them notwithstanding any objection by the directors elected by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $965,000 annually) to 9.0% per 42 Table of Contents annum (approximately $1.7 million annually). See “Description of Series A Preferred Stock—Redemption and Repurchases.” Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Risks Specific to the Common Stock The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) November 21, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the warrants we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First PacTrust Bancorp. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 6.1% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings and loan holding companies such as First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 Table of Contents 