ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its subsidiary, Pacific State Bank, conduct business in an environment that includes certain risks described below which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition, future prospects and stock price. You are also referred to the matters described under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," for additional information regarding factors that may affect the Company's business. o The Company's business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company's net interest income. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize the Company's interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company's net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. 12 o The Company faces strong competition from financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which can hurt Pacific State Bancorp' business. The Company's subsidiary, Pacific State Bank, conducts banking operations principally in Stockton California and San Joaquin County. Increased competition in the Bank's market may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, it may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by the Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, the Bank's competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If the Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits, which may adversely affect its and the Company's results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. o Changes in economic conditions could result in an economic downturn in Northern California which could adversely affect the Company's business. The Company's business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond the Company's control. A deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally including as the result of terrorist activities within and outside California could result in an economic downturn in Northern California and trigger the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect the Company's business: o loan delinquencies and defaults may increase; o problem assets and foreclosures may increase; o demand for the Company's products and services may decline; o low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and o collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans. o The Company has a concentration risk in real estate related loans. 13 At December 31, 2006, approximately 70.7% of the Company's loan portfolio consisted of real estate related loans. Substantially all of the Company's real property collateral is located in its operating markets in Stockton, California and San Joaquin County. A substantial decline in real estate values in the Company's primary market areas could occur as a result of an economic downturn, or other events including natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, and floods. Such a decline in values could have an adverse impact on the Company by limiting repayment of defaulted loans through sale of the real estate collateral and by likely increasing the number of defaulted loans to the extent that the financial condition of its borrowers is adversely affected by such a decline in values. Those events could necessitate a significant increase in the provision for loan and lease losses which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. o The Company and its subsidiary Bank are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect its business. The Company's and the Bank's operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it and its subsidiary Bank are in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of its business. Because the Company's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that these laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company's ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. o The Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results. The Company's allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Company's control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Company's loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that the Company's allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that it will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that regulators will not require it to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company's earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Inapplicable 14 