ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS System failures, security breaches, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable services to our customers. Our operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of: • our computer software or hardware, or our customers’ or suppliers’ computer software or hardware; • our networks, our customers’ networks or our suppliers’ networks; and • our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; • hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; • interruption of service due to potential facility migrations; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; and • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on, including that of our customers and vendors, could disrupt the operation of our network and the provision of our services, result in the loss of current and potential customers and expose us to potential customer liability. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any of our major customers would harm us. Our three largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2008 represented approximately 32.1% of our revenues in the aggregate, while our ten largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2008 represented approximately 55.8% of our revenues in the aggregate. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated revenues from services provided to Verizon Communications, Verizon Wireless and their affiliates, which collectively is our largest customer, of approximately $76.0 million, or 15.0% of our revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers would negatively impact our business. Most of our customer contracts do not provide for minimum payments at or near our historical levels of revenues from these customers. Although some of our customer contracts require our customers to make minimum payments to us, these minimum payments are substantially less than the revenues that we have historically earned from these customers. If our customers decide for any reason not to continue to purchase services from us at current levels or at current prices, to terminate their contracts with us or not to renew their contracts with us, our revenues would decline. Future consolidation among our customers may cause us to lose transaction volume and reduce our prices, which would negatively impact our financial performance. In the past, consolidation among our customers has caused us to lose transaction volume and to reduce prices. In the future, our transaction volume and pricing may decline for similar reasons. Such consolidation activities may take the form of business combinations, strategic partnerships, or other business arrangements between the operators. For example, during the second quarter of 2008 Verizon Wireless (Verizon) announced that it would acquire Alltel Corporation (Alltel). Verizon completed its acquisition of Alltel in January 2009. The impact to us of the consolidation is described under “Business Developments” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any revenue declines if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline as a result of consolidation activities. Our attempts to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the telecommunications industry, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and changing customer demands. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. Our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our existing services and by successfully developing, introducing and marketing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. Our failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, retain customers or maintain our financial performance. We sell our services primarily to telecommunications companies. Our future revenues and profits will depend, in part, on our ability to sell to new market participants. The market for our services is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significant advantages over us. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, reduced gross and operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. We face competition from large, well-funded providers of similar services, such as VeriSign, Neustar, Sybase, MACH and other existing communications, billing and technology companies. We are aware of major Internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing services that will compete with the services we offer. We anticipate increased competition in the telecommunications industry and the entrance of new competitors into our business. We expect that competition will remain intense in the near term and that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that they can use to their advantage. Our continued expansion into international markets is subject to uncertainties that could affect our operating results. Our growth strategy contemplates continued expansion of our operations into foreign jurisdictions. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous risks, including: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; • U.S. Department of Commerce export controls; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholdings requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; 21 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; • the risk that foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and • the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 27.7% of our total revenues (excluding off-network database queries) were generated outside of North America as compared to 21.7% for the year ended December 31, 2007. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could result in higher costs or reduced revenues for our international operations. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and technologies could impede our future growth, diminish our competitiveness and harm our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to consider acquiring complementary businesses. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable intangible assets acquired, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we could face with respect to acquisitions include: • greater than expected costs, management time and effort involved in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; • potential disruption of our ongoing business and difficulty in maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; • entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; • acquiring intellectual property which may be subject to various challenges from others; • the inability to successfully integrate the services, products and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; • the inability to achieve expected synergies; • a need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, or a need to issue equity securities, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders; and • realizing little, if any, return on our investment. Integrating our operations with the BSG Wireless operations may prove to be disruptive and could result in the combined businesses failing to meet our expectations. We expect to integrate the operations of BSG Wireless into our own and achieve certain cost saving synergies. We cannot be sure that we will realize these anticipated benefits in full or at all. Achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition will depend, in part, upon whether the operations and personnel of BSG Wireless can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner with our existing business. Our management team may encounter unforeseen difficulties in managing the integration of the two businesses. Additionally, difficulties in integration may result in adverse developments in our relationships with customers and suppliers. The process of integrating formerly separately operated businesses may prove disruptive to both businesses, may take longer than we anticipate and may cause an interruption of and have a material adverse effect on our combined businesses. 22 Table of Contents Even if we are able to successfully integrate the business of BSG Wireless into our operations, we may not realize the anticipated cost saving synergies of the BSG Wireless acquisition on the time table currently contemplated, or at all. The BSG Wireless acquisition was based, in part, on the expectation that the acquisition would result in various cost saving synergies. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the business of BSG Wireless into our operations, there can be no assurance that we will realize the expected cost saving synergies on the timetable currently contemplated, or at all. We expect to incur significant restructuring charges (including severance) and transition expenses in connection with these cost saving synergies. Achieving the expected cost saving synergies, as well as the costs of achieving them, is subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors. If these factors limit our ability to achieve the expected cost saving synergies of the acquisition or if the related costs exceed our estimates, our expectations of future results of operations, including the cost saving synergies expected to result from the acquisition, may not be met. Additionally, the actions we take to achieve cost saving synergies could have unintended consequences that adversely affect our business. If we encounter difficulties in achieving the expected cost saving synergies or do not achieve such cost saving synergies, we incur significantly greater costs related to such cost saving synergies than we anticipate or our activities related to such cost saving synergies have unintended consequences, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Difficulty in integrating technology may harm our business. Following the acquisition of BSG Wireless, we have begun to integrate certain technology platforms. This process may be slower or more difficult than we currently contemplate. Furthermore, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties in this process, which could cause integration difficulties and customer disruptions. The measures that we have taken to date or plan to take in the future may not adequately resolve those issues. If we fail to successfully integrate technology platforms, our ability to achieve cost efficiencies expected to result from the acquisition of BSG Wireless may be impaired, which may adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations and customer relationships. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels or transaction volumes could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Competition and industry consolidation have resulted in pricing pressure, which we expect to continue in the future and which we expect to continue to address through our volume-based pricing strategy. This pricing pressure could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. For example, consolidation in the wireless services industry in the United States over the past several years could give our customers increased transaction volume leverage in pricing negotiations. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. While historically pricing pressure has been largely offset by volume increases and the introduction of new services, in the future we may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. The inability of our customers to successfully implement our services could harm our business. Significant technical challenges can arise for our customers when they implement our services. Our customers’ ability to support the deployment of our services and integrate them successfully within their operations depends, in part, on our customers’ technological capabilities and the level of technological complexity involved. Difficulty in deploying those services could increase our customer service support costs, delay the recognition of revenues until the services are implemented and reduce our operating margins. Our reliance on third-party providers for communications software, hardware and infrastructure exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. Our success depends on software, equipment, network connectivity and infrastructure hosting services supplied by our vendors and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase the 23 Table of Contents necessary software, equipment and services from these vendors on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors and customers, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services. Our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers, that is used by our technology interoperability services, network services, number portability services, call processing services and enterprise solutions. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether those third parties will upgrade or improve their software, equipment and services to meet our and our customers’ evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. In addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to industry consolidation. This consolidation may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could lengthen the amount of time it takes to deliver the services that we use. Capacity limits on our network and application platforms may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems to meet increased use. As customers’ usage of our services increases, we will need to expand and upgrade our network and application platforms. We may not be able to accurately project the rate of increase in usage of our services. In addition, we may not be able to expand and upgrade, in a timely manner, our systems, networks and application platforms to accommodate increased usage of our services. If we do not appropriately expand and upgrade our systems and networks and application platforms, we may lose customers and our operating performance may suffer. Financial and operating difficulties in the telecommunications sector may negatively affect our customers and our company. Historically, the telecommunications sector has experienced significant challenges resulting in excess capacity, poor operating results and financing difficulties. Because we operate in the telecommunications sector, we may also be negatively impacted. While the sector has recently improved, some of our customers continue to have uncertain financial conditions. The impact of these conditions on us could include slower collections on accounts receivable, higher bad debt expense, uncertainties due to possible customer bankruptcies, lower pricing on new customer contracts, lower revenues due to lower usage by the end customer and possible consolidation among our customers, which will put our customers and operating performance at risk. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require more capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of services we offer; • maintain and expand our network; and • respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions and international expansion. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to incur indebtedness or obtain financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to reduce our operations or abandon expansion opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, our failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness as our competitors may provide better-maintained networks or offer an expanded range of services. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $513.8 million (including the current portion of $3.4 million). We are the borrower of all of this outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital and development expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the manufacture, production, distribution or marketing of our services, customer demand, competitive pressures and the industries we serve; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; • increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The addition of further debt to our current debt levels could intensify the leverage-related risks that we now face. In addition, our debt contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • changes in intellectual property rights of us or our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations; • the introduction of new products or changes in product; • pricing by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • generally adverse market conditions. 25 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. On November 16, 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan which declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right (the “Right”) for each outstanding share of Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the “Common Shares”), of the Company. The dividend was payable on November 28, 2008 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share (a “Unit”) of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Preferred Shares”), at a price of $33 per one one-thousandth of a Preferred Share (the “Purchase Price”), subject to adjustment. Each Unit has designations and powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions designed to make it the economic equivalent of a Common Share. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Rights Agreement dated November 16, 2008. Under the plan, the stock rights will become exercisable only when a public announcement or notice to Syniverse has been made that a person or group has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of Syniverse’s Common Shares, other than as a result of an offer approved by the Board of Directors of the Company and (ii) 10 business days (or, if determined by the Board of Directors, a specified or unspecified later date) following the commencement or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer which, if successful, would cause the bidder to own 15% of more of the outstanding Common Shares. Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a stockholder of Syniverse, other than rights resulting from such holder’s ownership of Common Shares, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations to which they or we may become subject may harm our business. Although we do not offer voice-grade or data services that are deemed to be common carrier telecommunication services, certain of the services we offer are subject to regulation by the United States Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, that could have an indirect effect on our business. The U.S. telecommunications industry has been subject to continuing deregulation since 1984 and the European and Asian telecommunications industries are also subject to continued deregulation. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect regulation or deregulation may have on our business. Several services that we offer may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon potential users of those services, which may increase our costs of operations. In addition, future services we may provide could be subject to direct regulation. We may not be able to receive or retain licenses or authorizations that may be required for us to sell our services internationally. The sales and marketing of our services internationally are subject to the U.S. Export Control regime. Services of a commercial nature are subject to regulatory control by the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Export Administration and to Export Administration regulations. In the future, Congress may require us to obtain export licenses or other export authorizations to export our services abroad, depending upon the nature of services being exported, as well as the country to which the export is to be made. We cannot assure you that any of our applications for export licenses or other authorizations will be granted or approved. Furthermore, the export license/export authorization process is often time-consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our revenue growth opportunities and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally. 26 Table of Contents Failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations or our ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign countries through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and agreements preventing the unauthorized disclosure and use of our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse engineering our services, or independently developing and marketing services that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. Moreover, third parties may be able to successfully challenge, oppose, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secret rights. We may fail or be unable to obtain or maintain adequate protections for certain of our intellectual property in the United States or certain foreign countries or our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights. Such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights is difficult and costly. From time to time, we may be required to initiate litigation or other action to enforce our intellectual property rights or to establish their validity. Such action could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention and we cannot assure you that any such action will be successful. If third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and ability to compete. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, significant litigation regarding patent rights exists in our industry. Our competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products and services. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent litigation. It is possible that third parties will make claims of infringement against us or against our licenses in connection with their use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing, using or selling equipment, services or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our equipment, services or products, if feasible; • divert management’s attention and resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees in connection with a third party’s use of our technology could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. 27 Table of Contents If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the United States and abroad. The loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. Our customers may develop in-house solutions and migrate part or all of the services that we provide them to these in-house solutions. We believe that certain customers may choose to internally deploy certain functionality currently provided by our services. In recent years, we have experienced a loss of revenue streams from certain of our services as some of our customers have decided to meet their needs for these services in-house. For example, in order to manage the expense associated with the significant volume growth in mobile data, Alltel and Sprint have directly connected their IP backbone networks. Thus, they no longer use Syniverse as a third party intermediary to manage the connectivity and exchange of billing records between their mobile data roaming platforms beginning in January 2009. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A growing part of our business consists of sales made to customers outside the United States. A portion of the net revenues we receive from such sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our cost of net revenues and our other operating expenses are incurred by our international operations and denominated in local currencies. While fluctuations in the value of these net revenues, costs and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we cannot assure you that adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, including intercompany balances eliminated in consolidation, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The current national and world-wide financial crisis could adversely affect our operating results and stock price in a material manner. General world-wide economic conditions have recently deteriorated due to credit conditions resulting from the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wireless communications markets. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to further slow spending on our services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times such as the current downturn, our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our accounts 28 Table of Contents receivable outstanding would be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn and any future downturn may reduce our revenue or our percentage of revenue growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, world-wide, or in the telecommunications industry or the wireless communications markets. If the economy or the markets in which we operate do not improve from their current condition or if they continue to deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could continue to reduce or further delay their use of our services, which would adversely impact our revenues and ultimately our profitability. In addition, we may record additional charges related to the restructuring of our business and the impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues from roaming clearinghouse are dependant upon subscribers continuing to travel. Worsening economic conditions may impact the frequency with which subscribers travel and consequently decrease our revenues. Demand for our services is driven primarily by wireless voice and data traffic, subscriber roaming activity, SMS and MMS messaging, number porting and next generation IP applications. The global wireless telecommunications industry is expected to grow due to continued subscriber growth, increased usage and deployment of new services. However, changes in subscriber usage patterns could be affected in any recession or economic downturn in the United States or any other country where we do business and could negatively impact the number of transactions processed and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. If the national and world-wide financial crisis intensifies, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and banks’ ability to meet long-term commitments; each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities. Our access to funds under our revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. For example, in 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. (Lehman CPI) filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Lehman CPI is the administrative agent of our senior credit facility. Lehman CPI has $28.2 million (45.5 percent) of the $62 million in commitments under our undrawn revolving credit line. It is doubtful Lehman CPI will honor its obligations under the revolving credit line. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, acquisition activities or other discretionary uses of cash. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we have to impair our intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and intangible assets, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 67% and 77% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. Under current accounting standards, we are able to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill is not amortized. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would 29 Table of Contents require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 