ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should consider these risk factors, our “Recent Developments” contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”, in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to make an investment in our Company’s stock. We are dependent on the strength of our local economy for our growth and profitability The success of our business depends on our ability to generate profits and grow our franchise. Our three county market area has a population base of approximately 231,000, and an economy based primarily on manufacturing and agriculture. Our local economy has not grown, and is not projected to grow as rapidly as the national economy. Job losses and unemployment rates in all three counties exceed the state and national averages. 31 Our future profits may be affected by our inability to grow core deposits We have had difficulty growing our core deposits. Competition in our market for core deposits is intense. Our net income is heavily dependent on net interest income. If we are unable to grow our core deposits, we will be required to obtain higher costing funds to facilitate asset growth. This could cause our future profits to be below peer. We are making commercial real estate loans outside of our normal market area In an attempt to grow our commercial real estate loan portfolio we consider it necessary in certain cases to make these loans outside of our normal market area. We have done this because competition for Commercial Real Estate loans in our local markets is intense. Lending outside of our normal market area may cause increased loan losses in the future if we lend in an area that we are not familiar with and that local economy suffers a recession. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our subprime residential lending Up until a few years ago, a significant portion of our one-to-four family residential loan originations were considered subprime. At December 31, 2008, $15.5 million of our residential mortgage loans were subprime loans. Historically, our foreclosure rates on our residential loan portfolio are higher than peer and we believe this is, to a significant extent, the result of our subprime residential lending and the economy in our market area. Future foreclosures will negatively impact profits because of higher loan loss provisions and expenses related to foreclosed properties. If we lose our executive officers, it could adversely affect our operations The successful operation of Monarch Community Bancorp and Monarch Community Bank is greatly dependent on the continued availability of capable executive officers. At present, the only executive officers of both Monarch Community Bancorp and Monarch Community Bank are Donald L. Denney, President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Van Doren, Vice President, Secretary and Corporate Counsel, and Rebecca S. Crabill, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Denney but not with the other executive officers. We do not have key man insurance on any of our executive officers. The amount of common stock controlled by insiders, our articles of incorporation and bylaws and state and federal statutory and regulatory provisions could discourage hostile acquisitions of control 32 Purchases of common stock by directors and officers are for investment purposes and not necessarily for resale. Inside ownership of Monarch Community Bancorp (totaling 236,320 shares as of December 31, 2007) is significant and this inside ownership and provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of discouraging attempts to acquire Monarch Community Bancorp, a proxy contest for control of Monarch Community Bancorp, the assumption of control of Monarch Community Bancorp by a holder of a large block of common stock and the removal of Monarch Community Bancorp’s management, all of which certain shareholders might think are in their best interests. These provisions include among other things: • the staggered terms of the members of the Board of Directors; • an 80% shareholder vote requirement for the approval of any merger or consolidation of Monarch Community Bancorp into any entity that directly or indirectly owns 10% or more of Monarch Community Bancorp voting stock if the transaction is not approved in advance by at least a majority of the disinterested members of Monarch Community Bancorp’s Board of Directors; • supermajority shareholder vote requirements for the approval of certain amendments to Monarch Community Bancorp’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; • a prohibition of any holder of common stock voting more than 10% of the outstanding common stock; • elimination of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors; • restrictions on the acquisition of our equity securities; • the authorization of five million shares of preferred stock that could be issued without shareholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt; and • the increase in the number of authorized shares and the reclassification of shares without stockholder approval. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where Monarch Community Bancorp is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of Monarch Community Bancorp, and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of bank holding companies such as Monarch Community Bancorp. The low trading volume in our common stock may make the value of the stock volatile and may make it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares when they desire. Historically, there have been times when trading volume has been low. During those times the Company’s stock price has encountered some decline. Average daily trading volume for the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007 were 3,473 and 8,004 shares respectively. The high and low levels of our stock price for each quarter of the last two fiscal years are disclosed in this document. A more detailed history of the Company’s stock price can be found under our stock symbol (MCBF). ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments — None 