ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If these events were to occur, we may not be able to pay all or part of the interest or principal on the Senior Notes (as defined below). Information contained in this section may be considered “forward-looking statements.” See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of certain qualifications regarding such statements. Risks Relating to Our Business System failures, delays and other problems could harm our reputation and business, cause us to lose customers and expose us to customer liability. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable services to our customers. Our operations could be interrupted by any damage to or failure of: •our computer software or hardware, or our customers’ or suppliers’ computer software or hardware;•our networks, our customers’ networks or our suppliers’ networks; and •our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties. Our systems and operations are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; •hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters; •a terrorist attack in the United States or in another country in which we operate; •interruption of service arising from facility migrations, resulting from changes in business operations including acquisitions; •computer viruses or software defects; 19Table of Contents•loss or misuse of proprietary information or customer data that compromises security, confidentiality or integrity; and •errors by our employees or third-party service providers.From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, our network nodes and other systems experience temporary outages. As a means of ensuring continuity in the services we provide to customers, we have invested in system redundancies, proactive alarm monitoring and other back-up infrastructure, though we cannot assure you that we will be able to re-route our services over our back-up facilities and provide continuous service to customers in all circumstances. Because many of our services play a mission-critical role for our customers, any damage to or failure of the infrastructure we rely on, including that of our customers and vendors, could disrupt the operation of our network and the provision of our services, result in the loss of current and potential customers and expose us to potential liability under our customer contracts. We do not control the networks over which many of our services are transmitted, and a failure in the operations of such networks could adversely affect our business.Our platform is dependent on the reliability of the sophisticated and complex networks of others in the mobile ecosystem, as well as our ability to deliver products and services across such networks at prices that enable us to realize a profit. These networks could fail for a variety of reasons, including new technology incompatibility, the degradation of network performance under the strain of too many mobile consumers using the network, a general failure from natural disaster or a political or regulatory shut-down. Individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs could also attack mobile networks and the devices that run on those networks. If a network upon which we rely should fail for any reason, we would not be able to effectively provide our services to our customers using that network. This in turn could hurt our reputation and cause us to lose significant revenue.Our reliance on third-party providers for communications software, hardware and infrastructure exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. Our success depends on software, equipment, network connectivity and infrastructure hosting services supplied by our vendors and customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase the necessary software, equipment and services from these vendors on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure service availability with these vendors and customers, we may lose customers during any disruption in services and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative supplier services, migration of equipment or services or incur additional capital expenditure costs. Our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned and managed by third parties, including our vendors and customers, that is used to deliver our services. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure and whether those third parties will upgrade or improve their software, equipment and services to meet our and our customers’ evolving requirements. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our services. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. In addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to industry consolidation. This consolidation may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could lengthen the amount of time it takes to deliver the services that we use, in particular for those services for which we need access to mobile operators’ networks in order to deliver. The costs and difficulties of acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and technologies could impede our future growth, diminish our competitiveness and harm our operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to consider selective acquisitions of complementary businesses. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks we currently and will continue to face with respect to acquisitions include: •greater than expected costs, management time and effort involved in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; •potential disruption of our ongoing business and difficulty in maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; •diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; •entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; 20Table of Contents•acquiring intellectual property which may be subject to various challenges from others; •the inability to successfully integrate the services, products and personnel of any acquisition into our operations; •the inability to achieve expected synergies, business growth opportunities, cost savings and other benefits we anticipate; •a need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses; •incurrence of liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses; and•unforeseen integration difficulties that may cause service disruptions. We may not realize the expected benefit of the MACH acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges.In June 2013, we completed our acquisition of MACH. The ultimate success of the MACH acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated benefits from integrating MACH’s business with our existing business. The integration process is complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of MACH’s business include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•our inability to achieve operating synergies anticipated in the acquisition;•unanticipated issues in integrating technology platforms, logistics, information, communications and other systems;•resolving inconsistencies in standards, controls, and compensation structures between MACH’s procedures and policies and our own;•failure to retain key customers and third-party vendors;•diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;•failure to retain key employees;•loss of key customers as we transition existing customers among our retained platforms;•operating risks in the acquired business and our business; and•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.We may not be able to maintain levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Syniverse and MACH had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of MACH’s business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or time frame. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the MACH acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The success of the MACH acquisition will depend, among other things, on successfully maintaining or improving relationship’s with MACH’s pre-existing customers.MACH’s revenue was concentrated in a small number of customers who do not have long-term purchase orders or contracts that contain minimum purchase commitments. In addition, in connection with obtaining certain government and regulatory approvals for the MACH acquisition, we agreed to discontinue using certain of MACH’s platforms within 24 months of the closing date and discontinue use of the MACH brand within 12 months. Currently we have not yet discontinued using such platforms or transitioned customers to our retained platforms. Our customers may react negatively to our combined business and reduce or cease doing business with the combined company in favor of our competitors or take business in-house. The failure to maintain important customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the industries we serve, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and changing customer demands. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our existing services and by successfully developing, introducing and marketing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. Significant technological changes have in the past, and are likely to continue to in the future, make certain of our technology and services obsolete. In addition, technological changes may result in a shift in end-user preferences or a decline in reliance on the mobile ecosystem, including, but not limited to, further advances in web-based personal communication. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. Our failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, retain customers 21Table of Contentsor maintain our financial performance. Our future revenues and profits will depend, in part, on our ability to sell to new market participants.Our new products and services, such as our data analytics and business intelligence solutions, may not be widely adopted by our current or targeted customers.In order to continue to meet the rapidly evolving needs of our customers and their end-users, we must continue to develop new products and services that are responsive to those needs. In particular, we have recently begun to expand our offerings of data analytics and business intelligence solutions to our customers. Our ability to realize the benefits of these and other new services depends, in part, on the adoption and utilization of such services and solutions by our customers, and we cannot be certain that existing or targeted customers will adopt such offerings in the near term or at all. If we are not successful in our efforts to develop and monetize new products and services, including data analytics and business intelligence solutions, our prospects, financial condition and results of operation would be materially adversely affected.We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of any of our major customers would harm us. Our 10 largest customers for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 represented approximately 55% and 60% of our reported revenues in the aggregate, respectively. We expect to continue to depend upon a small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues going forward. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers or any services provided to these customers would negatively impact our business. Any non‑renewal of contracts with these customers could materially reduce our revenues. Our failure to achieve or sustain desired pricing levels or to offset price reductions with increased transaction volumes, could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Competition and industry consolidation have resulted in pricing pressure in certain circumstances, which we expect to continue in the future and which we expect to continue to address through our volume-based pricing strategy. This pricing pressure could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services at the time of contract renewal or cause our customers to otherwise request pricing reductions or other concessions. For example, consolidation in the wireless services industry in the United States over the past several years has given some of our customers increased leverage in pricing negotiations. Our competitors or our customers’ in-house solutions may also provide services at a lower cost, significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. While historically pricing pressure has been largely offset by volume increases and the introduction of new services, in the future we may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions. Future consolidation among, or network build-outs by, our customers may cause us to lose transaction volume and reduce our prices, which would negatively impact our financial performance.In the past, consolidation among our customers has at times caused us to lose transaction volume and to reduce prices. In the future, our transaction volume and pricing may decline for similar reasons. Such consolidation activities may take the form of business combinations, strategic partnerships, or other business arrangements between the operators. In addition, our customers have, in the past, and may in the future, build-out their networks which could result in decreased transaction volumes as their home network expands.We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up for any revenue declines if we lose customers or if our transaction volumes decline as a result of consolidation activities. Our attempts to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. Most of our customer contracts do not provide for minimum payments at or near our historical levels of revenues from these customers. Although some of our customer contracts require our customers to make minimum payments to us, these minimum payments are substantially less than the revenues that we have historically earned from these customers. While our contracts generally run for three years, the amount of revenue produced by the contract is not guaranteed. If our customers decide for any reason not to continue to purchase services from us at current levels or at current prices, or not to renew their contracts with us, our revenues would decline. 22Table of ContentsThe market for our services is intensely competitive, including from our customers as they look to develop in-house alternatives to our products and services. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, reduced gross and operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. We face competition from large, well-funded providers of similar services, including existing communications, billing and technology companies. We are aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing services that will compete with one or more of the services we offer. In addition, we believe that certain of our customers may choose to internally develop and deploy certain functionality currently provided by our services. In recent years, we have experienced a loss of revenue streams from certain of our services as some of our customers have decided to meet their needs for these services in-house or by directly connecting with others in the mobile ecosystem.We expect that competition for our services will remain intense in the near term and that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. Certain of our current and potential competitors, including our customers, have significant financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in end-user requirements than we can. Our continued expansion into international markets is subject to uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results. Our growth strategy contemplates continued expansion of our operations into foreign jurisdictions. These international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous risks, including: •the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S., including in order to comply with local currency laws; •U.S. and foreign import, export and related regulatory controls on trade;•tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, taxes upon repatriation or other restrictions; •reputational harm or other adverse consequences due to our operations in jurisdictions subject to the Office of Foreign Assets Control laws and regulations. See “We currently conduct limited business operations and expect to continue such operations in countries targeted by United States and European Union (“E.U.”) economic sanctions”;•general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries, including recruiting and hiring adequate and competent personnel and maintaining our standards, controls, information systems and procedures; •the risk that foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including for example a delay we experienced in receiving regulatory confirmation for the commencement of number portability services in India; and •the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 35.8% of our total revenue was generated outside of the United States as compared to 30.4% for the year ended December 31, 2012. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could result in higher costs or reduced revenues for our international operations. Political instability in certain countries in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.We operate in over 200 countries and territories across the globe, including in countries and regions subject to political unrest and instability. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a foreign government and the U.S. or our company may adversely affect our operations. Such instability must be carefully considered by management when evaluating 23Table of Contentsthe level of current and future activity in such countries. These risks are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act (the “UK Act”). The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and requires companies to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The UK Act prohibits us from making payments to private citizens as well as government officials. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. As a result of the above activities, we are exposed to the risk of violating anti-corruption laws. Violations of these legal requirements are punishable by criminal fines and imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions, debarment from government contracts as well as other remedial measures. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist us and our personnel to comply with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will effectively prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.We currently conduct limited business operations and expect to continue such operations in countries targeted by United States and European Union economic sanctionsThe U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) enforces certain laws and regulations (“OFAC Sanctions”) that impose restrictions upon U.S. nationals, U.S. permanent residents, persons located in the U.S., or entities organized under the laws of a U.S. jurisdiction (collectively, “U.S. Persons”), upon business conducted in whole or in part in the U.S., and, in some instances, upon foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. Persons, with respect to activities or transactions with certain countries, governments, entities and individuals that are the subject of OFAC Sanctions (“U.S. Sanctions Targets”). U.S. Persons are also prohibited from facilitating such activities or transactions conducted by others. Similarly, the E.U. and its member nations enforce certain laws and regulations (“E.U. Sanctions”) that impose restrictions upon nationals of E.U. member states, persons located within E.U. member states, entities incorporated or constituted under the law of an E.U. member state, or business conducted in whole or in part in E.U. member states with respect to activities or transactions with certain countries, governments, entities and individuals that are the subject of E.U. Sanctions (“E.U. Sanctions Targets” and together with U.S. Sanctions Targets, “Sanctions Targets”). E.U. persons are also generally prohibited from activities that promote such activities or transactions conducted by others. Additionally, U.S. law authorizes the imposition of various disabilities (“U.S. Secondary Sanctions”) on non‑U.S. companies that engage in certain specified types of business involving Iran or Cuba. We engage in limited business activities in countries that are Sanctions Targets, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba. Our activities and investments in Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba in the aggregate accounted for approximately 0.093% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2013. We expect to continue to engage in these limited business activities in countries that are deemed Sanctions Targets over the foreseeable future. Although we believe that OFAC and E.U. Sanctions under their current terms do not prohibit our current activities, and that our current activities will not cause us to be subject to potential U.S. Secondary Sanctions under current U.S. law, our reputation may be adversely affected and investors may divest their investments in us as a result of internal investment policies or may decide for reputational reasons to divest such investments. In addition, the sanctions laws and regulations could be changed in ways that would require us to discontinue or limit our current activities involving Iran, Syria, Sudan or Cuba, or involving other countries, individuals or entities that are not currently designated as Sanctions Targets. We cannot assure you that the foregoing will not occur or that such occurrence will not have a material adverse effect on the value of our securities.24Table of ContentsWe conduct business in international markets with complex and evolving tax rules, which subjects us to international tax compliance risks.Some tax jurisdictions in which we operate have complex and subjective rules regarding the valuation of inter-company services, cross-border payments between affiliated companies and the related effects on the taxes to which we are subject, including income tax, value-added tax and transfer tax. From time to time, our foreign subsidiaries are subject to tax audits and may be required to pay additional taxes, interest or penalties should the taxing authority assert different interpretations, or different allocations or valuations of our services. There is a risk, if one or more taxing authorities significantly disagrees with our interpretations, allocations or valuations, that any additional taxes, interest or penalties which may result could be material and could reduce our income and cash flow from our international subsidiaries.We may not be able to receive or retain licenses or authorizations that may be required for us to sell our services internationally. The sales and marketing of our services and related products internationally are subject to the U.S. Export Control regime and similar regulations in other countries. In the United States, items of a commercial nature are generally subject to regulatory control by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security and to Export Administration Regulations, and other international trade regulations may apply as well. In the future, regulatory authorities may require us to obtain export licenses or other authorizations to export our services or related products abroad, depending upon the nature of items being exported, as well as the country to which the export is to be made. We cannot assure you that any of our applications for export licenses or other authorizations will be granted or approved. Furthermore, the export license/export authorization process is often time-consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our revenue growth opportunities and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally.Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States or in other major global markets could negatively impact our financial performance. Unfavorable general economic conditions may exist globally, or in one or more regions, due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the decreased availability of credit resulting from slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending. Adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the United States, Europe, including the ongoing European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain European countries and to the overall Eurozone, or in one or more of our other major markets, could adversely affect our customers in the wireless communications markets and thus impact our financial performance. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause further slow spending on our services. Furthermore, during challenging economic times such as recession or economic slowdown, our customers or vendors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments or provide services to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our accounts receivable outstanding would be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn and any future downturn may reduce our revenues or our percentage of revenue growth on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, world-wide, or in the telecommunications industry. If the economy or the markets in which we operate do not improve from their current condition or if they deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could reduce or further delay their use of our services, which would adversely impact our revenues and ultimately our profitability. In addition, we may record additional charges related to the restructuring of our business and the impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Demand for our services is driven primarily by wireless voice and data traffic. Changes in end-user usage patterns could be affected in any recession or economic downturn in the United States or any other country where we do business and could negatively impact the number of transactions processed and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Security breaches could damage our reputation, harm our operating results and result in significant liabilities. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. The services we offer involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and customer and end-user data. We believe the risk that a security breach could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand our technology and network footprint. Security breaches, such as physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism, and other cyber 25Table of Contentsrelated attacks, can occur that could compromise the security of our infrastructure, thereby exposing such information to unauthorized access by third parties. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems, change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against, remedy or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Any security breaches that occur could damage our reputation, increase our security costs, expose us to litigation and lead to the loss of existing or potential customers. If our services are perceived as not being secure, our strategy to be a leading provider of technology solutions to the wireless ecosystem may be adversely impacted.Because some of our solutions are used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional costs and liability to us or inhibit sales of our solutions.Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and in other countries where we offer our solutions. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently complex and evolving, and we believe it is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission and state breach notification laws. Internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply, including the Data Protection Directive established in the E.U., and the Federal Data Protection Act recently passed in Germany. Our services require that we electronically receive, process, store and transmit business information of our customers, which includes certain sensitive consumer and end-user data. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Our failure to generate the capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new solutions could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business.We may need to raise additional funds in the future from debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness or obtain financing. See Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt and credit facilities. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to reduce our operations or abandon expansion opportunities. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, our failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness as our competitors may provide better-maintained networks or offer an expanded range of services. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to: •adequately fund our operations; •enhance and expand the range of services we offer; •maintain and expand our network; •respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions and international expansion;•acquire or invest in complementary businesses, solutions or technologies;•hire, train and retain key employees; or•respond to unanticipated capital requirements.Our failure to do any of these things could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Regulations affecting our customers and us and future regulations to which they or we may become subject may harm our business. Although our services have not been heavily regulated in the past, we are authorized by the United States Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) to offer certain of our services on an interstate and international basis; we operate our number portability operations in Singapore and India pursuant to licenses granted by these governments and we are registered 26Table of Contentsas a money service business in the United Kingdom in connection with our financial clearing business. Each of these authorizations subject us to certain regulatory obligations.In addition, the majority of our customers are MNOs and subject to significant government regulation by various regulatory bodies, such as the FCC and European Commission. The European Commission has proposed regulations which would cap the price that carriers could charge one another for roaming minutes, which would lower the roaming revenues of our customers and could put downward pricing pressure on our data clearing service. Any change in current or future laws or regulations that negatively impact our customers could harm our business and results of operations. Several services that we offer also may be indirectly affected by regulations imposed upon the customers and end-users of those services. These regulations may increase our costs of operations and affect whether and in what form we are able to provide a given service at all. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation, or deregulation, might occur or the effects, adverse or otherwise, that such regulation may have on our business.We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We depend on the performance of our executive management team and other key employees that have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our business and operations. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the United States and abroad. Competition for key technical personnel in high-technology industries such as ours is intense. The loss of the services of any of our executive management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our ability to compete. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign countries through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and agreements preventing the unauthorized disclosure and use of our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse engineering our services, or independently developing and marketing services that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. Moreover, third parties may be able to successfully challenge, oppose, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. We may fail or be unable to obtain or maintain adequate protections for certain of our intellectual property in the United States or certain foreign countries. Further, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights. Such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights can be challenging and costly. From time to time, we may be required to initiate litigation or other action to enforce our intellectual property rights or to establish their validity. Such action could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, and we cannot assure you that any such action will be successful. If third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, it could have a negative impact on our results of operations and ability to compete. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, significant litigation regarding patent rights exists in our industry. Our competitors in both the U.S. and foreign countries, many of which have substantially greater resources than we have and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products and services. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management’s attention being diverted to patent litigation. It is possible that third parties will make claims of infringement against us, or against our licensees or other customers, in connection with their use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could: 27Table of Contents•be expensive and time-consuming to defend; •cause us to cease making, licensing, using or selling equipment, services or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; •require us to redesign our equipment, services or products, if feasible; •divert management’s attention and resources; and •require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our licensees or customers in connection with the use of our technology could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects. If third parties claim that our products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages or costs they incur in connection with such claims. We generally indemnify our customers with respect to claims that our products or services infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A significant part of our business consists of sales made to customers outside the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 19% of the revenues we received from such sales were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our operating expenses are incurred by our international operations and denominated in local currencies. While fluctuations in the value of these revenues and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we cannot assure you that adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non‑U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, including inter-company balances eliminated in consolidation, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currently, we do not engage in currency hedging contracts. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we have to impair our intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, including capitalized software, net of amortization, together accounted for approximately 80% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. Under current accounting standards, we are able to amortize certain intangible assets over the useful life of the asset, while goodwill is not amortized. We currently evaluate, and will continue to evaluate, on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill or other intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting standards, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could adversely affect our results of operations. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. The possibility of such litigation, and its timing, is in large part outside our control. While none of the current lawsuits in which we are involved are reasonably estimated to be material as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have material adverse effects on us. See “Business-Litigation.”28Table of ContentsWe may be unsuccessful in achieving our organic growth strategies, which could limit our revenue growth. Our ability to generate organic growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: •expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving network needs; •attract new customers; •increase the number of services performed for existing customers; and•achieve expected revenue from new customer contracts.Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate organic growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will occur or be successful.Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health, reduce our profitability, limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, and reduce the value of your investment. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2013, we had $2,051.2 million of indebtedness, net of original issue discount on a consolidated basis. In addition, we had $148.1 million of unused commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility (defined below), including an outstanding Euro letter of credit of $1.9 million at December 31, 2013, which is considered a reduction against the Revolving Credit Facility under the agreement. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, including, but not limited to: •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; •restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non‑strategic divestitures; •exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, as borrowings under the New Senior Credit Facility (defined below) are subject to variable rates of interest; •exposing us to additional risks related to currency exchange rates and repatriation of funds; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, including during times of adverse economic and industry conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our ability to refinance outstanding indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. Although the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, including obligations under lease arrangements that are currently recorded as operating leases even if operating leases were to be treated as debt under GAAP. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, we had $148.1 million of unused commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the covenants contained in the Senior Notes and New Senior Credit Facility.29Table of ContentsRestrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could impact our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the New Senior Credit Facility limit our ability, and the terms of any future indebtedness may limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; •issue disqualified and preferred stock; •make certain investments; •pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; •sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •incur liens; and •designate any of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the New Senior Credit Facility could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. Our failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. Following an event of default, the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility will also have the right to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the New Senior Credit Facility will also have the right to proceed against the collateral that secures those borrowings. If the indebtedness under our New Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes were to be accelerated, it could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under the Revolving Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the New Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The credit agreement governing the New Senior Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants and limitations in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the New Senior Credit Facility, could proceed against the collateral securing the secured obligations. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.The right of holders of our $475,000 senior unsecured notes bearing interest at 9.125% (the "Senior Notes") to receive payments on the Senior Notes is effectively subordinated to the rights of our existing and future secured creditors. 30Table of ContentsFurther, the guarantees of the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to all our guarantors’ existing and future secured indebtedness. Holders of our secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of the guarantors could have claims that are prior to the claims of holders of the Senior Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing that other indebtedness. Notably, we and certain of our subsidiaries, including the guarantors, are parties to our New Senior Credit Facility, which is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of the guarantors. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to all of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. In the event of any distribution or payment of our assets in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization, or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of secured indebtedness will have a prior claim to those of our assets that constitute their collateral. Holders of the Senior Notes will participate ratably with all holders of our unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as the Senior Notes, and potentially with all of our other general creditors, based upon the respective amounts owed to each holder or creditor, in our remaining assets. In any of the foregoing events, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes. As a result, holders of the Senior Notes may receive less, ratably, than holders of secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate amount of our secured indebtedness, net of original issue discount was approximately $1,576.2 million, and $148.1 million of unused commitments were available for additional borrowings under the revolving portion of our New Senior Credit Facility, including an outstanding Euro letter of credit of $1.9 million at December 31, 2013, which is considered a reduction against our revolving credit facility under the credit agreement. We are permitted to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future under the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes. Claims of noteholders are effectively subordinated to claims of creditors of all of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Senior Notes are guaranteed on a senior basis by our current and future wholly owned domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of our New Senior Credit Facility. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries held approximately $833.8 million, or 22.7%, of our total assets and $111.9 million, or 4.5%, of our total liabilities as of December 31, 2013 and accounted for approximately $180.0 million, or 21.0%, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 (all amounts presented exclude intercompany balances). In addition, we have the ability to designate certain of our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of the indenture and each credit agreement, and any subsidiary so designated will not be a guarantor of the Senior Notes or the New Senior Credit Facility. Our non-guarantor subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to the Senior Notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. Any right that we or the subsidiary guarantors have to receive any assets of any of the non-guarantor subsidiaries upon the liquidation or reorganization of those subsidiaries, and the consequent rights of noteholders to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ assets, are effectively subordinated to the claims of those subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt of those subsidiaries. In addition, the indenture governing the Senior Notes permits non-guarantor subsidiaries to incur significant additional indebtedness. The trading price of the Senior Notes may be volatile and can be directly affected by many factors, including our credit rating. The trading price of the Senior Notes could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to, among other factors, changes in our operating results, interest rates, the market for non-investment grade securities, general economic conditions and securities analysts’ recommendations, if any, regarding our securities. Credit rating agencies continually revise their ratings for companies they follow, including us. Any ratings downgrade could adversely affect the trading price of the Senior Notes, or the trading market for the Senior Notes, to the extent a trading market for the Senior Notes develops. The condition of the financial and credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future and any fluctuation may impact the trading price of the Senior Notes. We are a holding company with no operations and may not have access to sufficient cash to make payments on the Senior Notes. We are a holding company and have limited direct operations. Our most significant assets are the equity interests we hold in our subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our outstanding debt service and other obligations and such dividends may be restricted by law, the 31Table of Contentsinstruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes, the credit agreement governing our New Senior Credit Facility, or other agreements of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. In addition, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, except for our existing and future subsidiaries that are guarantors of the Senior Notes, any payments of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to legal and contractual restrictions on dividends. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries are contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings. Additionally, we may be limited in our ability to cause our existing and any future joint ventures to distribute their earnings to us. Subject to certain qualifications, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the Senior Notes, to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict payments from those subsidiaries to us. We cannot assure you that agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit those subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient cash to fund payments of principal, premiums, if any, and interest on the notes when due. In addition, any guarantee of the notes is subordinated to any secured indebtedness of a subsidiary guarantor to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness. Federal and state statutes may allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received from guarantors. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a guarantee could be deemed a fraudulent transfer if the guarantor received less than a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for giving the guarantee and •was insolvent on the date that it gave the guarantee or became insolvent as a result of giving the guarantee, or •was engaged in business or a transaction, or was about to engage in business or a transaction, for which property remaining with the guarantor was an unreasonably small capital, or •intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts that would be beyond the guarantor’s ability to pay as those debts matured. A guarantee could also be deemed a fraudulent transfer if it was given with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any entity to which the guarantor was or became, on or after the date the guarantee was given, indebted. The measures of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding with respect to the foregoing. Generally, however, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: •the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, is greater than all its assets, at a fair valuation, or •the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature, or •it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot predict: •what standard a court would apply in order to determine whether a guarantor was insolvent as of the date it issued the guarantee or whether, regardless of the method of valuation, a court would determine that the guarantor was insolvent on that date; or •whether a court would determine that the payments under the guarantee constituted fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds. The indenture contains a “savings clause” intended to limit each subsidiary guarantor’s liability under its guarantee to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer under applicable law. We cannot assure you that this provision will be upheld as intended. In 2009, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida in Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TOUSA, Inc. v. Citicorp N. Am., Inc. found this kind of provision in that case to be ineffective, and held the subsidiary guarantees to be fraudulent transfers and voided them in their entirety. If a guarantee is deemed to be a fraudulent transfer, it could be voided altogether, or it could be subordinated to all other debts of the guarantor. In such case, any payment by the guarantor pursuant to its guarantee could be required to be returned to the guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. If a guarantee is voided or held unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the Senior Notes would cease to have a claim against the subsidiary based on the guarantee and would be creditors only of the Company and any guarantor whose guarantee was not similarly voided or otherwise held unenforceable. 32Table of ContentsThe lenders under our New Senior Credit Facility have the discretion to release the guarantors under our New Senior Credit Facility in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the Senior Notes. While any obligations under our New Senior Credit Facility remain outstanding, any guarantee of the Senior Notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the Senior Notes or the trustee under the indenture governing the Senior Notes offered hereby, at the discretion of lenders under our New Senior Credit Facility, if such guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under our New Senior Credit Facility or any other indebtedness. The lenders under our New Senior Credit Facility will have the discretion to release the guarantees under our New Senior Credit Facility in a variety of circumstances. You will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the Senior Notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to claims of noteholders. We may not be able to satisfy our obligations to holders of the Senior Notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in the indenture, each holder of the Senior Notes has the right to require us to purchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any. Our failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the Senior Notes would be a default under the indenture, which would in turn be a default under our New Senior Credit Facility. In addition, a change of control may constitute an event of default under our New Senior Credit Facility. A default under our New Senior Credit Facility would result in an event of default under the indenture if the lenders accelerate the debt under our New Senior Credit Facility. If a change of control occurs, we may not have enough assets to satisfy all obligations under our New Senior Credit Facility and the indenture related to our Senior Notes. Upon the occurrence of a change of control we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under our New Senior Credit Facility and the Senior Notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders or you as a holder of the Senior Notes. There is no assurance, however, that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. No assurances can be given that any court would enforce the change of control provisions in the indenture governing the Senior Notes as written for the benefit of the holders, or as to how these change of control provisions would be impacted were we to become a debtor in a bankruptcy case.Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In the past we have discovered, and in the future we may discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we discovered and to improve our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Certain private equity investment funds affiliated with Carlyle own substantially all of our equity and their interests may not be aligned with those of the holders of the Senior Notes. Carlyle and certain co-investors own substantially all of the fully diluted equity of our parent company, and, therefore, have the power to control our affairs and policies. Carlyle also controls the election of directors, the appointment of management, the entry into mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions. The directors so elected have authority, subject to the terms of our debt, to issue additional stock, implement stock repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other decisions. The interests of Carlyle could conflict with those of the holders of our Senior Notes. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Carlyle and certain of its affiliates 33Table of Contentsand co-investors, as equity holders, might conflict with those of the holders of our Senior Notes. Carlyle may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to the holders of our Senior Notes. Additionally, Carlyle is in the business of making investments in companies, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 