Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our industry is intensely competitive, and most of our competitors have greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources and larger installed customer bases than we do, which could enable them to compete more effectively than we do. The data management software market is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving standards, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include CA, Inc. (formerly known as Computer Associates International, Inc.), EMC, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Symantec Corporation. The principal competitive factors in our industry include product functionality, product integration, platform coverage, ability to scale, price, worldwide sales infrastructure, global technical support, name recognition and reputation. The ability of major system vendors to bundle hardware and software solutions is also a significant competitive factor in our industry. If we are unable to address these competitive factors, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in revenues that could adversely affect our business. Most of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as larger installed customer bases, greater name recognition and broader product offerings, including hardware. These competitors can devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can and have the ability to bundle their hardware and software products in a combined offering. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It is also costly and time-consuming to change data management systems. Most of our new customers have installed data management software, which gives an incumbent competitor an advantage in retaining a customer because it already understands the network infrastructure, user demands and information technology needs of the customer, and also because some customers are reluctant to change vendors. Our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. If so, new competitors or alliances that include our competitors may emerge that could acquire significant market share. In addition, large operating system and application vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, have introduced products or functionality that includes some of the same functions offered by our software applications. In the future, further development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could seriously harm our sales, results of operations and financial condition. New competitors entering our markets can have a negative impact on our competitive positioning. In addition, we expect to encounter new competitors as we enter new markets. Furthermore, many of our existing competitors are broadening their operating systems platform coverage. We also expect increased competition from original equipment manufacturers, including those we partner with, and from systems and network management companies, especially those that have historically focused on the mainframe computer market and have been making acquisitions and broadening their efforts to include data management and storage products. We expect that 14 Table of Contents competition will increase as a result of future software industry consolidation. Increased competition could harm our business by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new software applications and services offerings, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The markets for our software applications are characterized by rapid technological changes, changing customer needs, frequent new software product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of software applications embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software applications obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the lifecycle of our software applications, and they may become obsolete before we receive the amount of revenues that we anticipate from them. If any of the foregoing events were to occur, our ability to retain or increase market share in the data management software market could be materially adversely affected. To be successful, we need to anticipate, develop and introduce new software applications and services on a timely and cost-effective basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may fail to develop and market software applications and services that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards, experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these applications and services or fail to develop applications and services that adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop and market such applications and services on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We may experience a decline in revenues or volatility in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict our future revenues or operating results with certainty because of many factors outside of our control. A significant revenue or profit decline, lowered forecasts or volatility in our operating results could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Factors that could affect our revenues and operating results include the following: • the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of orders for our software applications — during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008, a majority of our quarterly revenues was earned and recorded near the end of each quarter; • the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets; • the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our software applications in anticipation of new software applications or updates from us or our competitors; • the ability of our original equipment manufacturers and resellers to meet their sales objectives; • market acceptance of our new applications and enhancements; • our ability to control expenses; • changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; • the demands on our management, sales force and services infrastructure as a result of the introduction of new software applications or updates; and • the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of terrorism or military actions taken by the United States or its allies. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations of our future revenues. If revenue levels fall below our expectations and we are profitable at the time, our net income would decrease because only a small portion of our expenses varies with our revenues. If we are not profitable at the time, our net loss would 15 Table of Contents increase. Therefore, any significant decline in revenues for any period could have an immediate adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, our results of operations could be below expectations of public market analysts and investors in future periods, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, sales, services and management personnel. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to execute our existing business operations and identify and pursue new growth opportunities. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration and training of replacement personnel could be time consuming, cause additional disruptions to our business and be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key technical, sales, services and management employees or attract or retain other highly qualified technical, sales, services and management personnel in the future. The volatility of our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to attract or retain employees. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our personnel costs would be excessive and our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our software applications is highly dependent on the quality of our services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse affect on our sales of software applications and results of operations. Our services include the assessment and design of solutions to meet our customers’ storage management requirements and the efficient installation and deployment of our software applications based on specified business objectives. Further, once our software applications are deployed, our customers depend on us to resolve issues relating to our software applications. A high level of service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If we or our partners do not effectively install or deploy our applications, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, it would adversely affect our ability to sell software products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with prospective customers. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and professional services would have a material adverse effect on our sales of software applications and results of operations. We rely on indirect sales channels, such as distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators and corporate resellers, for the distribution of our software applications, and the failure of these channels to effectively sell our software applications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely significantly on our value-added resellers, systems integrators and corporate resellers, which we collectively refer to as resellers, for the marketing and distribution of our software applications and services. Resellers are our most significant distribution channel. However, our agreements with resellers are generally not exclusive, are generally renewable annually, generally do not contain minimum sales requirements and in many cases may be terminated by either party without cause. Many of our resellers carry software applications that are competitive with ours. These resellers may give a higher priority to other software applications, including those of our competitors, or may not continue to carry our software applications at all. If a number of resellers were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products, or were to promote our competitors’ products in lieu of our own, it would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Events or occurrences of this nature could seriously harm our sales and results of operations. If we fail to manage our resellers successfully, there may be conflicts between resellers, or they could fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales. In addition, we expect that a significant portion of our sales growth will depend upon our ability to identify and attract new reseller partners. The use of resellers is an integral part of our distribution network. We believe that our competitors also use 16 Table of Contents reseller arrangements. Our competitors may be more successful in attracting reseller partners and could enter into exclusive relationships with resellers that make it difficult to expand our reseller network. Any failure on our part to expand our network of resellers could impair our ability to grow revenues in the future. Sales through our reseller agreement with Dell accounted for approximately 18% of total revenues for fiscal 2008 and approximately 12% of total revenues for fiscal 2007. Dell accounted for a total of approximately 20% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2008 as a result of our reseller agreement and our original equipment manufacturer agreement. If we were to see an impairment of our receivable balance from Dell, it could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our resellers possess significant resources and advanced technical abilities. These resellers, particularly our corporate resellers, may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market software applications and related services that compete with our offerings. If this were to occur, these resellers might discontinue marketing and distributing our software applications and services. In addition, these resellers would have an advantage over us when marketing their competing software applications and related services because of their existing customer relationships. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, we have a distribution agreement with Alternative Technologies, Inc. (“ATI”), a subsidiary of Arrow Electronics, Inc., covering our North American commercial and U.S. federal government markets. Pursuant to the distribution agreement, ATI’s primary role is to enable a more efficient and effective distribution channel for our products and services by managing our reseller partners and leveraging their own industry experience. Sales through our distribution agreement with ATI accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008. ATI accounted for a total of approximately 24% of our accounts receivable balance as of March 31, 2008 as a result of our reseller agreement. If ATI were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products or if our agreement with ATI was terminated, and if we were unable to take back the management of our reseller channel or find another North American distributor to replace ATI, then it could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. We anticipate that an increasing portion of our revenues will depend on our arrangements with original equipment manufacturers that have no obligation to sell our software applications, and the termination or expiration of these arrangements or the failure of original equipment manufacturers to sell our software applications would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and results of operations. We have original equipment manufacturer agreements with Dell and Hitachi Data Systems and a reseller agreement with Dell. These original equipment manufacturers sell our software applications and in some cases incorporate our data management software into systems that they sell. A material portion of our revenues is generated through these arrangements, and we expect this contribution to grow as a percentage of our total revenues in the future. However, we have no control over the shipping dates or volumes of systems these original equipment manufacturers ship and they have no obligation to ship systems incorporating our software applications. They also have no obligation to recommend or offer our software applications exclusively or at all, and they have no minimum sales requirements and can terminate our relationship at any time. These original equipment manufacturers also could choose to develop their own data management software internally and incorporate those products into their systems instead of our software applications. The original equipment manufacturers that we do business with also compete with one another. If one of our original equipment manufacturer partners views our arrangement with another original equipment manufacturer as competing with its products, it may decide to stop doing business with us. Any material decrease in the volume of sales generated by original equipment manufacturers we do business with, as a result of these factors or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations in future periods. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreements accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008 and approximately 13% of our total revenues for fiscal 2007. Sales through our original equipment manufacturer agreement with Dell accounted for approximately 6% of total revenues for fiscal 2008 and 7% for fiscal 2007. If we were to see a decline in our sales through Dell it could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Sales of one of our software applications make up a substantial portion of our revenues, and a decline in demand for this software application could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and financial condition. We derive the majority of our software revenue from our Galaxy Backup and Recovery software application. Sales of Galaxy Backup and Recovery represented approximately 77% of our total software revenue for fiscal 2008 and 83% for fiscal 2007. In addition, we derive the majority of our services revenue from customer and technical support associated with our Galaxy Backup and Recovery software application. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for this software application, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budgetary constraints of our customers or other factors. If demand for this software application declines significantly, our sales, profitability and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our software applications are complex and contain undetected errors, which could adversely affect not only our software applications’ performance but also our reputation and the acceptance of our software applications in the market. Software applications as complex as those we offer contain undetected errors or failures, especially when products are first introduced or new versions are released. Despite extensive testing by us and by our customers, we have in the past discovered errors in our software applications and will do so in the future. As a result of past discovered errors, we experienced delays and lost revenues while we corrected those software applications. In addition, customers in the past have brought to our attention “bugs” in our software created by the customers’ unique operating environments, which are often characterized by a wide variety of both standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing very difficult and time consuming. Although we have been able to fix these software bugs in the past, we may not always be able to do so. Our software products may also be subject to intentional attacks by viruses that seek to take advantage of these bugs, errors or other weaknesses. Any of these events may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our software applications and services, which would seriously harm our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we believe that our reputation and name recognition are critical factors in our ability to compete and generate additional sales. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective software applications and services. The occurrence of errors in our software applications or the detection of bugs by our customers may damage our reputation in the market and our relationships with our existing customers, and as a result, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. In addition, because our software applications are used to manage data that is often critical to our customers, they may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, applications. As a result, the licensing and support of our software applications involve the risk of product liability claims. Any product liability insurance we carry may not be sufficient to cover our losses resulting from product liability claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We develop software applications that interoperate with operating systems and hardware developed by others, and if the developers of those operating systems and hardware do not cooperate with us or we are unable to devote the necessary resources so that our applications interoperate with those systems, our software development efforts may be delayed or foreclosed and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our software applications operate primarily on the Windows, UNIX, Linux and Novell Netware operating systems and the hardware devices of numerous manufacturers. When new or updated versions of these operating systems and hardware devices are introduced, it is often necessary for us to develop updated versions of our software applications so that they interoperate properly with these systems and devices. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, and it is not clear what the relative growth rates of these operating systems and hardware will be. These development efforts require the cooperation of the developers of the operating systems and hardware, substantial capital investment and the devotion of substantial employee resources. For some operating systems, we must obtain some proprietary application program interfaces from the owner in order to develop software applications that interoperate with the operating system. Operating system owners have 18 Table of Contents no obligation to assist in these development efforts. If they do not provide us with assistance or the necessary proprietary application program interfaces on a timely basis, we may experience delays or be unable to expand our software applications into other areas. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our research and development expenses were $26.9 million, or approximately 14% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, and $23.4 million, or 15% of our total revenues in fiscal 2007. Our future plans include significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. We encounter long sales and implementation cycles, particularly for our larger customers, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. Potential or existing customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. Sales of our core software products to these larger customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to win the customer. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: • our customers’ budgetary constraints; • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our customers’ willingness to replace their current software solutions; • our need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and • the timing of the expiration of our customers’ current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales, it could have a material adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. If we are unable to manage our growth, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, the quality of our products and services and our ability to retain key personnel. We have experienced a period of significant growth in recent years. Our revenues increased 31% for fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 and 38% for fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006. The number of our customers increased significantly during these periods. Our growth has placed increased demands on our management and other resources and will continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, manage our expanding operations effectively or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. Managing our growth effectively will involve, among other things: • continuing to retain, motivate and manage our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; • continuing to provide a high level of services to an increasing number of customers; • maintaining the quality of product and services offerings while controlling our expenses; • developing new sales channels that broaden the distribution of our software applications and services; and • developing, implementing and improving our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase revenues and profitability, the quality of our data management software, the quality of our services offerings and our ability to retain key personnel. These factors could adversely affect our reputation in the market and our ability to generate future sales from new or existing customers. We depend on growth in the data management software market, and lack of growth or contraction in this market or a general downturn in economic and market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. Demand for data management software is linked to growth in the amount of data generated and stored, demand for data retention and management (whether as a result of regulatory requirements or otherwise) and demand for and adoption of new storage devices and networking technologies. Because our software applications are concentrated within the data management software market, if the demand for storage devices, storage software applications, storage capacity or storage networking devices declines, our sales, profitability and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Segments of the computer and software industry have in the past experienced significant economic downturns. The occurrence of any of these factors in the data management software market could materially adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. Furthermore, the data management software market is dynamic and evolving. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the number of organizations adopting data management software for their computing environments. The market for data management software may not continue to grow at historic rates, or at all. If this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. Our services revenue produces lower gross margins than our software revenue, and an increase in services revenue relative to software revenue would harm our overall gross margins. Our services revenue, which includes fees for customer support, assessment and design consulting, implementation and post-deployment services and training, was approximately 45% of our total revenues for fiscal 2008, 44% for fiscal 2007 and approximately 43% of our total revenues for fiscal 2006. Our services revenue has lower gross margins than our software revenue. The gross margin of our services revenue was 72.5% for fiscal 2008, 70.2% for fiscal 2007 and 71.9% for fiscal 2006. The gross margin of our software revenue was 97.8% for fiscal 2008, 98.0% for fiscal 2007 and 97.2% for fiscal 2006. An increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by services revenue would adversely affect our overall gross margins. The volume and profitability of services can depend in large part upon: • competitive pricing pressure on the rates that we can charge for our services; • the complexity of our customers’ information technology environments and the existence of multiple non-integrated legacy databases; • the resources directed by our customers to their implementation projects; and • the extent to which outside consulting organizations provide services directly to customers. Any erosion of our margins for our services revenue or any adverse change in the mix of our license versus services revenue would adversely affect our operating results. Our international sales and operations are subject to factors that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have significant sales and services operations outside the United States, and derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these operations. We also plan to continue to expand our international operations. We generated approximately 36% of our revenues from outside the United States in fiscal 2008 and approximately 30% in fiscal 2007. 20 Table of Contents In addition to facing risks similar to the risks faced by our domestic operations, our international operations are also subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries, could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including those pertaining to export restrictions, trade and employment restrictions and intellectual property protections; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • competition from local suppliers; • costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages; and • political unrest, war or acts of terrorism. Our business in emerging markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in those markets. Our overall success in international markets depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Furthermore, the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have been profitable for the last four fiscal years, however, may be unable to sustain future profitability. We have been profitable for the last four fiscal years, generating net income of $20.8 million for fiscal 2008, $64.3 million for fiscal 2007, $10.8 million for fiscal 2006 and $0.5 million in fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2007, we recorded an income tax benefit of $45.4 million primarily due to the reversal of substantially all of our deferred income tax valuation allowance, which resulted in net income of $64.3 million. As of March 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $94.9 million. We intend to continue to expend significant funds in developing our software and service offerings and for general corporate purposes, including marketing, services and sales operations, hiring additional personnel, upgrading our infrastructure and expanding into new geographical markets. We expect that associated expenses will precede any revenues generated by the increased spending. If we experience a downturn in business, we may incur losses and negative cash flows from operations, which could materially adversely affect our profitability, results of operations and capitalization. We are exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations that could harm our reported revenues and results of operations. Our international sales are generally denominated in foreign currencies, and this revenue could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. We generated approximately 36% of our revenues from outside the United States in fiscal 2008 and approximately 30% in fiscal 2007. Our primary exposures are to fluctuations in exchange rates for the U.S. dollar versus the Euro and, to a lesser extent, the Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan, Indian rupee and Singapore dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have not historically hedged our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and as a result, we could incur unanticipated gains or losses. 21 Table of Contents We are currently unable to accurately predict what our long-term effective tax rates will be in the future. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and the various foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our long-term effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws, as well as other factors. Our judgments may be subject to audits or reviews by local tax authorities in each of these jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our income tax provisions. As of March 31, 2008, we have net deferred tax assets of approximately $54.9 million, which are comprised primarily of net operating losses and tax credits in the United States. Consequently, our cash tax rate in the United States will be significantly lower than our effective tax rate for the next one or two fiscal years. However, we expect our cash taxes to continue to increase over time as our cash tax rate approaches our effective tax rate. Our ability to sell to the U.S. federal government is subject to uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our ability to sell software applications and services to the U.S. federal government is subject to uncertainties related to the government’s future funding commitments and our ability to maintain certain security clearances complying with the Department of Defense and other agency requirements. For both fiscal 2008 and 2007, approximately 7% of our revenues were derived from sales where the U.S. federal government was the end user. The future prospects for our business are also sensitive to changes in government policies and funding priorities. Changes in government policies or priorities, including funding levels through agency or program budget reductions by the U.S. Congress or government agencies, could materially adversely affect our ability to sell our software applications to the U.S. federal government, causing our business prospects to suffer. In addition, our U.S. federal government sales require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, retain and recruit qualified employees who already hold security clearances. To the extent that we are not able to obtain security clearances or engage employees with security clearances, we may not be able to effectively sell our software applications and services to the U.S. federal government, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our success depends significantly upon proprietary technology in our software, documentation and other written materials. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of: • patents; • copyright and trademark laws; • trade secrets; • confidentiality procedures; and • contractual provisions. These methods afford only limited protection. Despite this limited protection, any issued patent may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business. Further, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, and any patents issued to us may not be timely or broad enough to protect our proprietary rights. We may also develop proprietary products or technologies that cannot be protected under patent law. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our software applications or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software applications is difficult, and we expect software piracy to continue to be a persistent problem. In 22 Table of Contents licensing our software applications, we typically rely on “shrink wrap” or “click wrap” licenses that are not signed by licensees. We may have difficulty enforcing these licenses in some jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our attempts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our software applications or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, from time to time we are participants or members of various industry standard-setting organizations or other industry technical organizations. Our participation or membership in such organizations may, in some circumstances, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties regarding our intellectual property under terms established by those organizations, which we may not find favorable. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because of the nature of our business, we may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current or future software applications, trademarks or other proprietary rights. We expect that software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of software applications and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of software applications in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all. Any of these claims could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. These third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have no plans, nor are we currently considering any proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire a business, technology, product or service. Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services that we believe complement or expand our existing business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention during the acquisition and integration process; • costs, delays and difficulties of integrating the acquired company’s operations, technologies and personnel into our existing operations and organization; 23 Table of Contents • adverse impact on earnings as a result of amortizing the acquired company’s intangible assets or impairment charges related to write-downs of goodwill related to acquisitions; • issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders; • potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired companies; • impact on our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or our failure to meet operating expectations for acquired businesses; and • assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs of the acquisitions or may result in other adverse effects. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our business and subjects us to possible litigation. Some of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, the Common Public License, “Apache-style’’ licenses, “Berkley Software Distribution or BSD-style” licenses and other open source licenses. We monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies. The use of such open source software may ultimately subject some of our products to unintended conditions, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and ability to commercialize our products or technologies. Some of these open source licenses may subject us to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained the open source software and required to make the source code for the open source software available to others, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates, treatment of our tax assets or liabilities or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • the public’s response to our press releases, rumors, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; • sales of common stock by our directors, officers and significant stockholders; • announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; • our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts’ projections; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; • broad market and industry factors; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. The market prices of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our ability to obtain capital through future stock offerings. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are available for sale into the public market. The occurrence of such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Certain provisions in our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for CommVault and prevent changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in management that our stockholders might deem advantageous. Specific provisions in our certificate of incorporation include: • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; • a classified board in which only a third of the total board members will be elected at each annual stockholder meeting; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • limitations on convening stockholder meetings. As a result of these and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Further, certain of our employment agreements and incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to the employees thereunder if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, 25 Table of Contents as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new NASDAQ rules promulgated in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these public company requirements has increased our costs and we expect that it will continue to increase our costs and make some activities more time consuming. For example, in recent fiscal years we created a new internal Disclosures and Controls Committee and adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will continue to incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our Annual Report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statement as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, (“E&Y”), is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the year. Our continued compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if E&Y cannot timely attest, there may be a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to regulatory sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 