Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to First PacTrust Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. We also expect to face increased regulation and government oversight as a result of these downward trends. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorizes the Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The 33 Table of Contents purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $350 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The Series A Preferred Stock and warrants were issued by us to Treasury pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in California, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued through 2008. Further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within the State of California, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: • loan delinquency may continue to rise; • problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; and • collateral for our loans may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our loans were to individuals and business in southern California. If real estate values continue to decline in this area, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 34 Table of Contents Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for these loans, together with substantial volatility in oil prices and other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land loans, multi-family loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial and multi-family and other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 35 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses or if we are required to increase our provision for loan losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Material additions to the allowance or increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The maturity and repricing characteristics of our assets and liabilities are mismatched and subject us to interest rate risk which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operations are influenced significantly by general economic conditions, including the absolute level of interest rates, as well as changes in interest rates and the slope of the yield curve. Our ability to operate profitably is dependent to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest received from our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities. Significant changes in market interest rates or errors or misjudgments in our interest rate risk management procedures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our activities, like other financial institutions, inherently involve the assumption of interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate risk is determined by the maturity and repricing characteristics of our assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet contracts. Interest rate risk is measured by the variability of financial performance and economic value resulting from changes in interest rates. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk affecting our financial performance. We believe that the greatest source of interest rate risk to us results from the mismatch of maturities or repricing intervals for our rate sensitive assets, liabilities and off-balance-sheet contracts. This mismatch, or “gap,” is generally characterized by a substantially shorter maturity structure for interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets. Additional interest rate risk results from mismatched repricing indices and formulae (basis risk and yield curve risk), and product caps and floors and early repayment or withdrawal provisions (option risk), which may be contractual or market driven, that are generally more favorable to customers than to us. Our primary monitoring tool for assessing interest rate risk is asset/liability simulation modeling, which is designed to capture the dynamics of balance sheet, interest rate and spread movements and to quantify variations in net interest income and net market value of equity resulting from those movements under different rate environments. We update and prepare our simulation modeling at least quarterly for review by senior management and our directors. Nonetheless, the interest rate sensitivity of our net interest income and net market value of our equity could vary substantially if different assumptions were used or if actual experience differs from the assumptions used and, as a result, our interest rate risk management strategies may prove to be inadequate. 36 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to the number of multi-family, construction, commercial real estate and consumer loans. Our multi-family, construction and commercial real estate loans accounted for approximately 40.7% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties. In addition, we plan to increase our emphasis on multi-family and commercial real estate lending. Because of our planned increased emphasis on and increased investment in multi-family and commercial real estate lending, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. The loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to expansion, unseasoned nature and amount of nonconforming loans. Over the last three years our loan portfolio has grown by $107.9 million or 15.7%. As a result of this growth, a portion of our loan portfolio is considered to be unseasoned, with the risk that these loans may not have had sufficient time to perform to properly indicate the potential magnitude of losses. Our unseasoned adjustable rate loans have not, therefore, been subject to an interest rate environment which causes them to adjust to the maximum level and may involve risks resulting from potentially increasing payment obligations by the borrower as a result of repricing. Most of our adjustable rate mortgage loans are also non-conforming, due mainly to the generally large loan size and are, therefore, not readily saleable to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. Since some of these loans have terms which may result in negative amortization, where the loan payments do not fully cover interest and result in an increasing loan principal balance, the portfolio is also subject to increased risk of delinquency or default as the higher, fully indexed rate of interest subsequently comes into effect upon repricing. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. We encounter continuous technological change in our industry. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations 37 Table of Contents or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. In addition, we may be subject to new legislation in response to negative developments in the financial industry and the economy as described under “—Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations,” which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. First PacTrust Bancorp receives substantially all of its revenue as dividends from Pacific Trust Bank. Federal regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to First PacTrust Bancorp. See “Regulatory Considerations.” In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to First PacTrust Bancorp, First PacTrust Bancorp may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock. Risks Relating to Both the Series A Preferred Stock and Our Common Stock The Series A Preferred Stock is equity and is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness; regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock; and the Series A Preferred Stock places no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are equity interests in First PacTrust Bancorp and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, the Series A Preferred Stock, like our common stock, ranks junior to all indebtedness and other non-equity claims on First PacTrust Bancorp with respect to assets available to satisfy claims on First PacTrust Bancorp, including in a liquidation of First PacTrust Bancorp. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred stock like the Series A Preferred Stock, as with our common stock, (1) dividends are payable only when, as and if authorized and declared by, our Board of Directors and depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, debt service requirements, other cash needs and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant, and (2) as a Maryland corporation, under Maryland law we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends out of lawfully available funds. See “Regulatory Considerations.” 38 Table of Contents First PacTrust Bancorp is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Pacific Trust Bank, and derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, First PacTrust Bancorp is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to First PacTrust Bancorp, First PacTrust Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Also, First PacTrust Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock does not limit the amount of debt or other obligations we or our subsidiaries may incur in the future. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock or to which the Series A Preferred Stock will be structurally subordinated. The prices of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the Series A Preferred Stock and/or common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. There currently is no market for the Series A Preferred Stock, and we cannot predict how the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of the Series A Preferred Stock or our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock. 39 Table of Contents There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions described under “Description of Capital Stock—Anti-Takeover Effects.” Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. For further information, see “Description of Capital Stock—Preferred Stock.” In addition, pursuant to OTS regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the OTS. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. Risks Specific to the Series A Preferred Stock An active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock may not develop. The Series A Preferred Stock is not currently listed on any securities exchange and we do not anticipate listing the Series A Preferred Stock on an exchange unless we are requested to do so by Treasury pursuant to the securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock will develop, or, if developed, that an active trading market will be maintained. If an active market is not developed or sustained, the market value and liquidity of the Series A Preferred Stock may be adversely affected. The Series A Preferred Stock may be junior in rights and preferences to our future preferred stock. Subject to approval by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding, voting together as a separate class, we may issue preferred stock in the future the terms of which are expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of any such future preferred stock expressly senior to the Series A Preferred Stock may restrict dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, the terms of any such senior preferred stock may provide that, unless full dividends for all of our outstanding preferred stock senior to the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid for the relevant periods, no dividends will be paid on the Series A Preferred Stock, and no shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be repurchased, 40 Table of Contents redeemed, or otherwise acquired by us. This could result in dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock not being paid when contemplated. In addition, in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, the terms of the senior preferred stock may prohibit us from making payments on the Series A Preferred Stock until all amounts due to holders of the senior preferred stock in such circumstances are paid in full. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. Until and unless we are in arrears on our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain other matters and except as may be required by Maryland law. If dividends on the Preferred Stock are not paid in full for six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, the total number of positions on the First PacTrust Bancorp Board of Directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, acting as a class with any other parity securities having similar voting rights, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid in full all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods. See “Description of Series A Preferred Stock—Voting Rights.” Based on the current number of members of the First PacTrust Bancorp Board of Directors (six), directors elected by the holders of the common stock would have a controlling majority of the Board and would be able to take any action approved by them notwithstanding any objection by the directors elected by the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $965,000 annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $1.7 million annually). See “Description of Series A Preferred Stock—Redemption and Repurchases.” Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Risks Specific to the Common Stock The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) November 21, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. 41 Table of Contents The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the warrants we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of First PacTrust Bancorp. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 6.1% of the shares of our common stock outstanding (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings and loan holding companies such as First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 42 Table of Contents 