Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to certain risks. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our securities when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) The risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. In that event, the value of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to First PacTrust Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy, particularly in the Bank’s market area. The current economic recession in the market area we serve may continue to impact our earnings adversely and could increase the credit risk of our loan portfolio. Our primary market area is concentrated in the greater San Diego market area. Adverse economic conditions in that market area can reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers’ ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings. General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may affect our profitability adversely. Our market area is undergoing a recession, which has resulted in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures, decreased demand for our products and services and a decline in the value of our loan collateral. If this recession continues or becomes more severe, this negative impact on our business, financial condition and earnings may increase. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Beginning in 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and increasing unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The United States and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the United States and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in restoring industry, economic or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves, (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading among other things to continuing reductions in asset values, (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally, (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. 29 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. If our loan losses exceed our allowance for probable loan losses, our business, financial condition and profitability may suffer. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.1% of gross loans held for investment and 73.5% of nonperforming loans, net of specific valuation allowances, at December 31, 2010. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than that of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. 30 Table of Contents Our provision for loan losses has decreased, however, additional increases in the provision and loan charge-offs may be required, adversely impacting operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $9.0 million compared to $17.3 million for the 2009 fiscal year. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.4 million in 2010, compared to $22.5 million in 2009. During 2010, the Company’s loan delinquencies and credit losses began to stabilize. The Company’s nonperforming loans, net of specific valuation allowances, declined $3.2 million to $19.9 million at December 31, 2010. If trends in the housing, real estate and local business markets worsen, we would expect increased levels of delinquencies and credit losses which adversely impacts our condition and operations. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as real estate owned (“REO”), and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our bank regulator periodically reviews our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulator, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in losses and adversely affect our continuing operations. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s security portfolio consisted of twenty seven securities, four of which were in an unrealized loss position. The majority of unrealized losses are related to the Company’s private label mortgage-backed securities, as discussed below. The Company’s private label mortgage-backed securities that are in a loss position had a market value of $11.5 million with unrealized losses of approximately $232 thousand at December 31, 2010. These non-agency private label mortgage-backed securities were rated AAA at purchase and are not within the scope of ASC 325. The Company monitors to insure it has adequate credit support and as of December 31, 2010, the Company believed there was no OTTI and did not have the intent to sell these securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. See further discussion in Note 2-Securities. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders’ equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2010, $588.2 million, or 85.1% of our total gross loan portfolio, was secured by one-to four- single-family mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the California housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral 31 Table of Contents securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits. To be profitable, we have to earn more money on loans and investments that we make than we pay to our depositors and lenders in interest. If interest rates rise, our net interest income and the value of our assets could be reduced if interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, increases more quickly than interest received on interest-earning assets, such as loans, other mortgage-related investments and investment securities. This is most likely to occur if short-term interest rates increase at a faster rate than long-term interest rates. In addition, rising interest rates may hurt our income because it may reduce the demand for loans and the value of our securities. In a rapidly changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage our interest rate risk effectively, which would adversely impact our condition and operations. For a further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7. We face significant operational risks. We operate many different financial service functions and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a significant number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss from operations, including fraud by employees or outside persons, employees’ execution of incorrect or unauthorized transactions, data processing and technology errors or hacking and breaches of internal control systems. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities to new stockholders would be dilutive to our current stockholders. 32 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There may be future sales of additional common stock or preferred stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our shareholders. Provisions in our charter and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Maryland and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of any class of our equity securities, including our common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on voting shares of common stock beneficially owned in excess of 10% of total shares outstanding, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations with any person who beneficially owns more than 10% of our outstanding common stock; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings, a requirement that only directors may fill a vacancy in our Board of Directors, supermajority voting requirements to remove any of our directors and the other provisions of our charter. Our charter also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. For further information, see “Description of Capital Stock—Preferred Stock.” In addition, pursuant to federal banking regulations, as a general matter, no person or company, acting individually or in concert with others, may acquire more than 10% of our common stock without prior approval from the our federal banking regulator. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board of Directors. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. We currently hold a significant amount of bank-owned life insurance. At December 31, 2010, we held $18.2 million of bank-owned life insurance or BOLI on certain key employees and executives, with a cash surrender value of $18.2 million. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to us if needed for liquidity purposes. We continually monitor the financial strength of the various companies with whom we carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a 33 Table of Contents decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return our cash surrender value. If we need to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, we would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings. If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (“FHLB”) becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. At December 31, 2010, we owned $8.3 million in FHLB stock. We are required to own this stock to be a member of and to obtain advances from our FHLB. This stock is not marketable and can only be redeemed by our FHLB, which currently is not redeeming any excess member stock. Our FHLB’s financial condition is linked, in part, to the eleven other members of the FHLB System and to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their capital, which would cause our FHLB stock to be deemed impaired, resulting in a decrease in our earnings and assets. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. The Bank and the Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides for the creation of a consumer protection division at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that will have broad authority to issue regulations governing the services and products we provide consumers. This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely impact our operations. That legislation also contains provisions that, over time, could result in higher regulatory capital requirements and loan loss provisions for the Company and the Bank and may increase interest expense due to the ability in July 2011 to pay interest on all demand deposits. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Recent regulatory changes impose limits on our ability to charge overdraft fees, which may decrease our non-interest income as compared to more recent prior periods. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. See “How We Are Regulated.” In this recent economic downturn, federal banking regulators have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OTS, govern the activities in which the Bank may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 34 Table of Contents Our earnings are adversely impacted by increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule that requires financial institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which will be amortized for the period and adjusted for changes in premium levels or our financial condition. As a result, this prepayment will not immediately impact our earnings. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater name recognition, resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services or prices for services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of the Company’s revenue. First PacTrust’s primary source of revenue is earnings of available cash and securities and dividends from the Bank. The OTS regulates and must approve the amount of Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, First PacTrust may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s preferred and common stock which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers for our common stock at any given time. This presence is impacted by general economic and market conditions and investors’ views of our Company. Because our trading volume is limited, any significant sales of our shares could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. First PacTrust Bancorp is an entity separate and distinct from its principal subsidiary, Pacific Trust Bank, and derives a portion of its revenue in the form of dividends from that subsidiary. Accordingly, First PacTrust Bancorp may be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on any indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on its common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to First PacTrust Bancorp, First PacTrust Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Also, First PacTrust Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. This includes claims under the liquidation account maintained for the benefit of certain eligible deposit account holders of the Bank established in connection with the Bank’s conversion from the mutual to the stock form of ownership. 35 Table of Contents The prices of the common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the Series A Preferred Stock and/or common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • developments related to investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve us; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • dispositions, acquisitions and financings; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of our common stock may also be affected by conditions affecting the financial markets in general, including price and trading fluctuations. These conditions may result in (i) volatility in the level of, and fluctuations in, the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock and (ii) sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, in each case that could be unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or any substantially similar securities. The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by us of a large number of shares of common stock or similar securities in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. The voting limitation provision in our charter could limit your voting rights as a holder of our common stock. Our charter provides that any person or group who acquires beneficial ownership of our common stock in excess of 10% of the outstanding shares may not vote the excess shares. Accordingly, if you acquire beneficial ownership of more than 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, your voting rights with respect to the common stock will not be commensurate with your economic interest in our company. In addition, the Maryland business corporation law, the state where First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. is incorporated, provides for certain restrictions on acquisition of First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc., and federal law contains restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings and loan holding companies such as First PacTrust Bancorp, Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 36 Table of Contents 