Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to Our Business In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following material risk factors associated with our business and our common shares when evaluating Gastar. An investment in Gastar is subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of our common shares will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in Gastar may decrease, resulting in a loss. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile and a decline in natural gas and oil prices can significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business greatly depends on market prices of natural gas and oil. The higher market prices are, the more likely it is that we will be financially successful. On the other hand, declines in natural gas or oil prices may have a material adverse affect our financial condition, profitability and liquidity. Lower prices also may reduce the amount of natural gas or oil that we can produce economically. Natural gas and oil are commodities whose prices are set by broad market forces. Historically, the natural gas and oil markets have been volatile. Natural gas and oil prices will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • The domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; • Overall economic conditions; • Weather conditions; • Political conditions in the Middle East and other oil producing regions, such as Venezuela; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • The level of consumer product demand; and • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Our success is influenced by natural gas prices in the specific areas where we operate, and these prices may be lower than prices at major markets. Even though overall natural gas prices at major markets, such as Henry Hub in Louisiana, may be high, regional natural gas prices may move independent of broad industry price trends. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional natural gas prices regardless of Henry Hub or other major market pricing. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 72% of our production is priced based on the Katy Hub (“Katy”) basis point, and the remainder is priced on the CIG basis point. Recently, natural gas prices on CIG have been extremely volatile, and spot sales of natural gas in the region traded at prices substantially below historic levels, when compared to prices in other primary natural gas sales points in the country. This has been attributed primarily to limitations in available pipeline capacity for natural gas deliveries out of the Rocky Mountain area. In 2007, spot prices for CIG Rocky Mountains on occasion dipped to less than $1.00 per MMBtu. While this volatility currently has been alleviated by completion of a major pipeline system in January 2008, this relief may be offset over time by the expected increase in supply of natural gas available in the Rocky Mountains. At December 31, 2007, the Katy hub basis traded at approximately par to Henry Hub, and CIG hub basis traded at approximately 11% less then Henry Hub. Low natural gas prices in any or all of the areas where we operate would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In Victoria and New South Wales the wholesale price for gas is determined by contract negotiations and is not related to a “hub” or “spot market” price. Prospective natural gas sales related to our pilot CBM project in New South Wales will be dependent on electricity prices in the area since the natural gas is being dedicated initially as fuel for an electric generation facility. Natural gas and oil reserves are depleting assets, and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our future natural gas and oil production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Production from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities and/or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Exploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful. Our future success will largely depend on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • Unexpected drilling conditions; • Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage; • Pressure or irregularities in formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions; • Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future; and • Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. We use available seismic data to assist in the location of potential drilling sites. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and other visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would have a material adverse affect our financial condition, future cash flows and results of operations. In addition, using seismic data and other advanced technologies involves substantial upfront costs and is more expensive than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these expenditures. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception and may incur additional significant net losses in the future. We have not been profitable since we started our business. We incurred net losses of $30.5 million, $84.8 million and $25.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our capital has been employed in an increasingly expanding natural gas and oil exploration and development program with the focus on finding significant natural gas and oil reserves and producing from them over the long-term rather than focusing on achieving immediate net income. The uncertainties described in this section may impede our ability to ultimately find, develop and exploit natural gas and oil reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have a substantial amount of debt, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, to remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As December 31, 2007, we have had total debt of $133.3 million of which $100.0 million consisted of the 12 3/4% senior secured notes due 2012 (“12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes”), $30.0 million consisted of convertible senior debentures due 2009 and $3.3 million consisted of subordinated unsecured notes due 2009. Our level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following: • We may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • We will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms; • We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in natural gas and oil prices; and • The covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; and • Our debt covenants may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the economy or in our industry. We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. We may to incur substantially more debt in the future. Although the indenture governing the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes and our Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Disputes have arisen between GeoStar and us in connection with the POA, general operating and administrative activity, and purchase price adjustments relating to certain Texas properties. Over the past six years, we entered into various transactions or agreements with GeoStar, one of our former majority shareholders and an affiliate of our former Chairman of the Board. In 2001, we entered into a Participation and Operating Agreement (the “POA”) with GeoStar that governed certain property acquisition, exploration and development activities of GeoStar and us. Various disputes have arisen, primarily over the past year, in connection with the POA and general operating and administrative activity between GeoStar and us. GeoStar claims that we have breached alleged agreements to reimburse it for various payments and services allegedly performed by GeoStar and its personnel and paid on our behalf by GeoStar. GeoStar claims that the amounts of the payments and the value of the services exceed $17.0 million. GeoStar alternatively alleges that if there was no contract covering those payments and services, it allegedly is entitled to reimbursement on equitable principles. We have also requested that GeoStar’s Australian subsidiary provide a record title assignment of our 75% beneficial interests in EL 4416, the exploration license in the Gippsland Basin property in Victoria, Australia. GeoStar seeks a declaration that we do not own rights in EL 4416. Although we strongly contend that these additional GeoStar charges are without merit and that GeoStar owes us approximately $3.7 million at December 31, 2007, we may not prevail. Payment to GeoStar of the amounts asserted would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the result of operations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, a dispute has arisen regarding the Purchase and Sale Agreements (the “PSAs”) between GeoStar and the Company relating to certain East Texas properties acquired by us in 2005. The PSAs contain a provision whereby a “Look Back Payment” is calculated based in part on changes in proved and probable reserves attributable to certain of our East Texas leasehold interests over certain periods of time. Payments to GeoStar under the PSAs, if any, are to be effected through the issuance of our common shares. On November 7, 2007, GeoStar submitted a reserve report to us that reports substantially greater reserve estimates than the estimates we have obtained. GeoStar has also asserted that the Look Back analysis should be based on changes in reserves attributable to the entirety, or 8/8ths, of the leasehold interests with respect to the East Texas properties, rather than on changes in reserves attributable to GeoStar’s net revenue interest in those properties as of the effectiveness of the PSAs, as we believe. We vigorously dispute that GeoStar’s reserves report complies with the requirements of the PSAs and vigorously dispute GeoStar’s contention as to the portion of reserves subject to the Look Back analysis. However, if GeoStar were to present both of these current assertions in litigation and obtain an outcome adverse to the Company on both issues, we could be required to issue a number of shares to GeoStar sufficient to cause a change in control of the ownership of Gastar. In 2007, the Company recorded a $1.4 million litigation settlement expense accrual related to a proposed settlement with GeoStar regarding the various GeoStar arbitration and litigation matters. The settlement proposal was never finalized. Information about our legal proceedings is set forth in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on Page F-1. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to drilling an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. It does happen, from time to time, that the examination made by the title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Information about our legal proceedings is set forth in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page F-1. A dispute between third parties affecting the ownership of undivided interests in certain East Texas oil and gas leases that we sold in 2005 may make it difficult for us, as operator of those leases, to obtain funds for some of our planned joint drilling operations until the dispute is resolved. In 2005, we sold Chesapeake Energy Corporation a one-third undivided interest in various oil and gas leases, located in Leon and Robertson Counties, Texas together with shares of our common stock. Navasota Resources, L.P. filed a lawsuit against us and Chesapeake asserting a preferential right to purchase the undivided leasehold interest under an operating agreement. While this issue was resolved by the trial court in favor of Chesapeake, an appeals court has recently reversed and rendered judgment favoring Navasota’s right to acquire the undivided interest. Chesapeake and the Company filed a motion for rehearing and, if unsuccessful, may consider an appeal to the Texas Supreme Court. While ownership of this undivided leasehold interest remains unresolved, Chesapeake and Navasota are disputing responsibility for paying the proportionate share of joint capital and operating costs relating to this interest or approving authorizations for future joint drilling expenditures. Delays in determining ultimate ownership of this interest could lead to the Company paying a disproportionate share of costs at its own risk or result in a delay in drilling of wells planned on this acreage in East Texas, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating natural gas and oil reserves and their values, many of which are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas or oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable natural gas or oil reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend on many variables and assumptions, such as: • Historical natural gas or oil production from that area, compared with production from other producing areas; • The assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • Assumptions concerning future prices; • Assumptions concerning future operating costs; • Assumptions concerning severance and excise taxes; and • Assumptions concerning development costs and workover and remedial costs. Any of these assumptions could vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas or oil attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineer at different times, may vary substantially. Because of this, our reserve estimates may materially change at any time. You should not consider the present values of estimated future net cash flows referred to in this Form 10-K to be the current market value of the estimated reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs in effect when the estimate is made. However, actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • The amount and timing of actual production; • Supply and demand for natural gas or oil; • Actual prices received for natural gas in the future being different than those used in the estimate; • Curtailments or increases in consumption of natural gas or oil; • Changes in governmental regulations or taxation; and • The timing of both production and expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas or oil properties. In this Form 10-K, the net present value of future net revenues is calculated using a 10% discount rate. This rate is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the natural gas and oil industry in general. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The imprecise nature of estimating proved natural gas and oil reserves, future downward revisions of proved reserves and increased drilling expenditures without current additions to proved reserves may lead to write downs in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties. Due to the imprecise nature of estimating natural gas and oil reserves as well as the potential volatility in natural gas and oil prices and their effect on the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, write downs in the future may be required as a result of factors that may negatively affect the present value of proved natural gas and oil reserves. These factors can include volatile natural gas and oil prices, downward revisions in estimated proved natural gas and oil reserve quantities, limited classification of proved reserves associated with successful wells and unsuccessful drilling activities. A majority of our proved reserves are classified as proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped and may ultimately prove to be less than estimated. At December 31, 2007, approximately 60% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped. It will take substantial capital to recomplete or drill our non-producing and undeveloped locations. Our estimate of proved reserves at December 31, 2007 assumes that we will spend significant development capital expenditures to develop these reserves, including an estimated $39.1 million and $9.5 million in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Further, our drilling efforts may be delayed or unsuccessful, and actual reserves may prove to be less than current reserve estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. We may experience shortages of equipment and personnel, which could significantly disrupt or delay our operations. From time to time, there has been a general shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services in North America and Australia, which could intensify with increased industry activity. In addition, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies have risen. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or trained personnel could delay and adversely affect our operations and drilling plans, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. While we entered into contracts for the services of drilling rigs in North America and Australia, we may not be successful in doing so in the future. The demand for, and wage rates of, qualified rig crews have begun to rise in the drilling industry due to the increasing number of active rigs in service. Personnel shortages have occurred in the past during times of increasing demand for drilling services. If the number of active drilling rigs increases, we may experience shortages of qualified personnel to operate our drilling rigs, which could delay our drilling operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. Our exploration and production interests and operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the handling and discharge of substances into the environment. These existing laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our interests and operations including: • Air and water discharge permits for drilling and production operations; • Drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility assurances; • Reports concerning operations; • Spacing of wells; • Access to properties, particularly in the Powder River Basin; • Taxation; and • Other regulatory controls on operating activities. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, regulatory agencies have from time to time imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the flow rate of wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of natural gas and oil. Failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to our interests and operations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting future operations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Legal requirements are sometimes unclear or subject to reinterpretation and may be frequently changed in response to economic or political conditions. As a result, it is hard to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their affect on our interests and operations. In addition, existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. The production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and oil, by-products of natural gas and oil and other substances produced or used in connection with natural gas and oil production operations are regulated by laws and regulations focused on the protection of human health and the environment. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct under certain of these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our storage facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Consequently, the discharge or release of natural gas, oil or other substances into the air, soil or water, even by predecessor operators, could subject us to liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Our Australian operations are subject to unique risks relating to Aboriginal land claims and government licenses. Native title, which is based on the traditional laws of Aboriginal groups, was recognized in Australia in 1992. Since 1994 there has been a process under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) through which indigenous groups claiming to hold native title can have their title formally recognized. Because native title, by definition, has existed uninterrupted since white settlement of Australia, claims with a reasonable prospect of success are “registered” and registered claimants have certain rights to participate in government land use decisions affecting land to which they may hold native title. Through the claims process, there are some areas in Australia where native title is now formally recognized. However, in New South Wales and Victoria, where we have our Australian operations, most native title claims are yet to be resolved. Native title can and has been extinguished across much of Australia and cannot be revived. Native title may be wholly extinguished in relation to particular areas of land by a grant of an inconsistent title, such as freehold or a lease conferring exclusive possession. Where this has occurred it is possible to determine that native title has been extinguished irrespective of the formal resolution of a claim. Native title has no effect in relation to land use in such areas. Native title is also extinguished where the traditional Aboriginal owners have lost their traditional links to the land. This can usually only be determined through the claim resolution process. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Native title can impact our Australian operations in two important ways: • Validity of interests: Where we are seeking to obtain an authority to prospect, develop resources or construct a pipeline over land subject to a registered native title claim or determination, in respect of which prior extinguishment cannot be demonstrated, it is necessary to follow the processes contained in the Commonwealth native title the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) to ensure validity of the authority insofar as it affects native title. • Costs and delays associated with procedural rights of registered native title claimants/holders when seeking government authorities: Under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth), registered native title claimants or holders (native title parties) have certain procedural rights in relation to the grant of authorities by the state government in respect of land to which they may or do hold native title. We may be required to attempt to reach agreement with any native title parties as to the terms on which they will agree to the grant of the authority we seek. Such an agreement may include immediate payments, revenue sharing, or both. Payments are likely to apply even before the claim is formally resolved. An agreement may also restrict the area where prospecting or development can occur in order to ensure that areas of cultural heritage significance are preserved. Reaching agreement with a native title party can be costly and cause delay. Generally, the costs associated with the grant of pipeline licenses are less than those for production approvals. It is possible to request the National Native Title Tribunal to arbitrate a dispute regarding the terms on which a prospecting or production authority can be granted, if there has been no resolution after six months. Other processes are available for resolution of disputes regarding pipeline licensing approvals according to state laws. There are registered native title claims in the Gunnedah Basin in New South Wales affecting PEL 238 and 433. EL 4416 in the Gippsland Basin in Victoria is not presently subject to a native title claim. However, a claim may be lodged which affects this property in the future. The process of drilling for and producing natural gas and oil involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and we may not have enough insurance to cover these risks adequately. The natural gas and oil business involves many operating hazards, such as: • Well blowouts, fires and explosions; • Surface craterings and casing collapses; • Uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; • Pipe and cement failures; • Formations with abnormal pressures; • Stuck drilling and service tools; • Pipeline ruptures or spills; • Natural disasters; and • Releases of toxic natural gas. Any of these events could cause substantial losses to us as a result of: • Injury or death; • Damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • Pollution and other environmental damage; • Regulatory investigations and penalties; • Suspension of operations; and • Repair and remediation costs. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We could also be responsible for environmental damage caused by previous owners of property that we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. Although we maintain what we believe is appropriate and customary insurance for these risks, the insurance may not be available or sufficient to cover all of these liabilities. If these liabilities are not covered by our insurance, paying them could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties. Approximately 79% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 was from the production of wells located in our deep Bossier play in East Texas. Any disruption in production or our ability to process and sell our natural gas production from this area would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Production of the natural gas in East Texas could unexpectedly be disrupted or curtailed due to reservoir or mechanical problems. Our natural gas produced from this area contains levels of carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide that are above levels accepted by gas purchasers. This production must be treated by the purchaser. A majority of our East Texas production is processed by the purchaser. If the purchaser’s facilities ceased to operate, were destroyed or otherwise needed replacement, it could require 60 to 90 days to replace or repair these facilities. A 60 to 90 day curtailment of our East Texas production could reduce current revenues by an estimated $5.0 to $7.5 million, with a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. The CBM which we produce in the Powder River Basin may be drained by offsetting production wells. Our drilling locations in the Powder River Basin are spaced primarily using 80-acre spacing. Producing wells located on the 80-acre spacing units contiguous with our drilling locations may drain the acreage underlying our wells. If a substantial number of productive wells are drilled on spacing units adjacent to our properties, they may decrease our revenue and could have an adverse impact on the economically recoverable reserves of our properties that are susceptible to such drainage. Our Powder River Basin CBM wells typically have a shorter reserve life and lower rates of production than conventional natural gas wells, which may adversely affect our profitability during periods of low natural gas prices. The shallow coals from which we produce CBM in the Powder River Basin typically have a two to six year reserve life and have lower total reserves and produce at lower rates than most conventional natural gas wells. We depend on drilling a large number of wells each year to replace production and reserves in the Powder River Basin and to distribute operational expenses over a larger number of wells. A decline in natural gas prices could make certain wells uneconomical because production rates are lower on an individual well basis and may be insufficient to cover operational costs. There are a limited number of natural gas purchasers and transporters in the Hilltop area of our deep Bossier play in East Texas. The loss of our current purchaser and transporter and an inability to locate another purchaser and transporter would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There are a limited number of natural gas transporters in the Hilltop area in East Texas. For the year ended December 31, 2007, ETC accounted for substantially all of our revenues from this area. If ETC were to cease purchasing and transporting our natural gas and we were unable to contract with another transporter, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Our ability to market our natural gas and oil may be impaired by capacity constraints on the gathering systems and pipelines that transport our natural gas and oil. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas production depends on the proximity of our reserves to and the capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. We enter into agreements with companies that own pipelines used to transport natural gas from the wellhead to contract destination. Those pipelines are limited in size and volume of natural gas flow. Should production begin, other 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements outstanding contracts with other producers and developers could interfere with our access to a natural gas line to deliver natural gas to the market. We do not own or operate any natural gas lines or distribution facilities. Further, interstate transportation and distribution of natural gas is regulated by the federal government through the FERC. FERC sets rules and carries out administratively the oversight of interstate markets for natural gas and other energy policy. Among FERC’s powers is the ability to dictate sale and delivery of natural gas to any markets it oversees. Additionally, state regulators have vast powers over sale, supply and delivery of natural gas and oil within their state borders. While we do employ certain companies to represent our interests before state regulatory agencies, our interests may not receive favorable rulings from any state agency, or some future occurrence may drastically alter our ability to enter into contracts or deliver natural gas to the market. In recent years pipeline capacity for natural gas deliveries out of the Rocky Mountain area has been, at times, significantly constrained resulting in an oversupply and creating substantial discounts on spot natural gas prices received for regional production. This has had a substantial impact on the prices received for natural gas production from Wyoming and Montana, as compared to Gulf Coast natural gas prices. While a recently completed interstate pipeline currently has alleviated the problem by providing access to the Midwest interstate pipelines and markets, the relief may be offset over time by the expected increase in supply of natural gas available in the Rocky Mountains. Australian natural gas markets and transmission infrastructure exists but they are not as developed or interconnected as the markets and infrastructure in the United States. Specifically, the PEL 238 concession is currently not served by natural gas transmission infrastructure. The initial gas market for PEL 238 natural gas is anticipated to be an electricity generation facility located near the town of Narrabri, New South Wales. A short transmission pipeline is required to be built to serve this initial market. Access to a larger electricity facility will require construction of a pipeline of approximately 300 kilometers to reach PEL 238 with an additional 150 kilometers of pipeline infrastructure required to access the natural gas markets in the Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong markets. The capital costs for these projects, if deemed feasible, would be substantial in order to realize the value of any identified reserves and construction would require significant amounts of time. The EL 4416 license in the Gippsland Basin of Victoria, the site of recent pilot CBM drilling and planned production testing, is served by three existing natural gas transmission pipelines. At the time production commences, the existing pipelines may have constraints in the capacity available to transport natural gas from the EL 4416 license to markets in the area of Sydney, Melbourne and Tasmania. Our exploration rights in Australia are subject to renewal at the discretion of the government. Coal bed methane exploration in Victoria is conducted under an exploration license granted under the Mineral Resources (Sustainable Development) Act 1990 (Victoria) which is granted at the discretion of the Minister for Primary Industries. Each exploration license requires the expenditure of a set amount of exploration costs and is generally subject to renewal for five years after the initial term of five years. On renewal of an exploration license, the Minister may require reduction of the area to which the exploration license applies. Coal bed methane exploration in New South Wales is conducted under a Petroleum Exploration License (“PEL”) granted under the Petroleum (Onshore) Act 1991 (NSW), which is granted at the discretion of the Minister. Each PEL requires the expenditure of a set amount of exploration costs and is generally subject to renewal a term of up to six years after the initial term of up to six years. On renewal of a PEL, the Minister may require reduction of the area to which the PEL applies. We cannot assure that our exploration licenses or PELs will be renewed. Non-renewal or loss of an exploration licenses or PELs could adversely affect our exploration and development plans, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. We are smaller and have less operating history than many of our competitors, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with other natural gas and oil companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated natural gas and oil companies, numerous independent natural gas and oil companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do and that, in many instances, have been engaged in the natural gas and oil business for a much longer time than we have. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase more properties and prospects than our financial and human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to spend more on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to the current and future success of natural gas and oil companies. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct our operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Increased competitive pressure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. Where appropriate, we may evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. In particular, we expect to pursue acquisitions that have the potential to economically increase our natural gas and oil reserves. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of: • Recoverable reserves; • Exploration potential; • Future natural gas and oil prices; • Operating costs; • Potential environmental and other liabilities; and • Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: • Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; • Unanticipated costs; • Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business; • Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate, which may affect the timing and success of our future operations. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements associated costs could have a material adverse affect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including: • Timing and amount of capital expenditures; • The operator’s expertise and financial resources; • Approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • Selection of technology. Technological changes could affect our operations. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement such new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, many other natural gas and oil companies have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may be unable to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies that we currently use or may implement in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Rapid growth could result in a strain on our resources. Because of our size, our growth, if achieved, will likely place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrence of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the recruitment and retention of experienced managers, geoscientists and engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Our ability to successfully execute and maximize our business plan is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate financing. Our 2008 capital expenditures under our current business plan are estimated to total approximately $65.4 million, of which $43.4 million is estimated to be spent on unconventional natural gas and oil exploration and development operations in East Texas, $7.4 million is estimated to be spent on CBM projects and additional projects in the United States and $14.6 million is estimated to be spent on CBM projects in Australia. Our business plan, which includes participation in 3-D seismic shoots, the drilling of exploration prospects and development projects and producing property acquisitions, has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. We will require additional financing to fund our planned growth and scheduled debt maturities beyond the next 12 months. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In particular, the terms of our credit agreements will limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be required to curtail our exploration and development activities or be forced to sell some of our assets in an untimely fashion or on less than favorable terms. Disputes with GeoStar may make it difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of equity. The 2005 Purchase and Sale Agreements, or 2005 PSAs, between GeoStar and the Company relating to certain East Texas properties acquired by the Company contain a “look back” contingent payment provision that is the subject of claims in certain litigation matters with GeoStar. The 2005 PSAs sets forth a formula by which 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the amount of the look back payment is based in large part upon estimates of proved and probable reserves attributable to the East Texas properties as of June 30 of 2006 and 2007. Under the 2005 PSAs, the look back payment is to be settled by the issuance of our common shares. GeoStar asserts that, under its calculations, it is entitled to a look back payment of approximately 1.7 billion shares of our common stock, which if issued would constitute approximately 89% of our outstanding common equity. The Company strongly disputes GeoStar’s assertions. While these litigation matters remain pending, it will be difficult for us to raise equity capital through the sale of our common stock to fund future operations and capital needs. Information about our legal proceedings with GeoStar is set forth under the caption “Litigation—Arbitration and Litigation with GeoStar and its Affiliates” in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page F-1. Hedging of our production may result in losses or prevent us from benefiting to the fullest extent possible from increases in prices for natural gas and oil. In September 2007, we commenced hedging our natural gas production utilizing costless collars. Although these hedges may partially protect us from by declines in natural gas prices, the use of these arrangements may limit our ability to benefit from significant increases in the prices of natural gas. Exchange rate fluctuations subject us to unique risks. As our Australian activities increase, we will be increasingly exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. We have only minimal exposure to Canadian currency fluctuations, as almost all of our current revenues and expenses are in U.S. dollars. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We depend to a large extent on the services of a limited number of senior management personnel and directors. Particularly, the loss of the services of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief operating officer could negatively impact our future operations. We have employment agreements with these key members of our senior management team; although, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management. We believe that our success is also dependent on our ability to continue to retain the services of skilled technical personnel. Our inability to retain skilled technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Our major shareholder may influence the activities and operations of certain jointly owned properties, which also could result in conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2007, Chesapeake Energy Corporation owned approximately 16.3% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Chesapeake is in a position to heavily influence the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of or amendment to provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Their high level of ownership may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. Chesapeake has the right to have an observer present at our board of directors meetings. Chesapeake and its subsidiaries are also engaged in the natural gas and oil business. Although we have entered into a joint operating agreement with Chesapeake, it is possible that we may in some circumstances be in direct or indirect competition with Chesapeake, including competition with respect to certain business strategies and transactions that we may propose to undertake. These conflicts of interest may have a material adverse affect our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Some of our directors may not be subject to suit in the United States. Two of our directors reside in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors, to bring suit against them in the United States or to enforce in the United States courts any judgment obtained there against them predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts will enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against those directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or will enforce, in original actions, liabilities against those directors upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws. A change of control of the Company could have a material adverse effect on us, and if GeoStar prevails in its “look back” claim, it could result in a change of control of the Company. Under the terms or agreements for our 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes, the Revolving Credit Facility and the convertible senior debentures, which collectively constitute substantially all of our indebtedness, upon the occurrence of specific types of changes of control in the Company, we will be required to either repay or make an offer to repurchase all outstanding debt under these agreements. If such a change of control were to occur, including as a result of payment of a disputed look back payment if GeoStar were to prevail in its assertion discussed elsewhere in this report, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay debt becoming due or repurchase debt tendered to us. In that event, we would need to seek waivers from lenders and debtholders, which may not be obtainable, or a refinancing, which may not be available or on terms as favorable as the refinanced debt. Such a required repayment, repurchase or refinancing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Shares Our common share price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common shares are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of drilling and rig activity, economic conditions in the natural gas and oil industry, general economic conditions or other events or factors that are beyond our control. Information about the market price of our common shares since trading commenced on the American Stock Exchange on January 5, 2006 is set forth in Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Market Information”. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for natural gas and oil exploration companies in particular have experienced large price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or asset values of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously impact the market price and trading volume of our common shares regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in our common shares trading price, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Future issuances of our common shares may adversely affect the price of our common shares. The future issuance of a substantial number of common shares into the public market, or the perception that such issuance could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. A decline in the price of our common shares could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of our common shares or securities convertible into common shares. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to issue an unlimited number of our common shares under our articles of incorporation may result in dilution or make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. Unlike most corporations formed in the United States, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation chartered under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada permit the board of directors to issue an unlimited number of new common shares without shareholder approval, subject only to the rules of the American Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange or any future exchange on which our common shares might trade. The issuance of a large number of common shares could be effected by our directors to thwart a takeover attempt or offer for us by a third party, even if doing so would not benefit our shareholders, which could result in the common shares being valued less in the market. The issuance, or the threat of issuance, of a large number of common shares, at prices that are dilutive to the outstanding common shares could also result in the common shares being valued less in the market. Failure to register our 12 3/4 % Senior Secured Notes that were sold in a November 2007 private placement could result in us being required to pay additional interest, which could be significant. On November 29, 2007, we sold $100.0 million of our 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes. We are obligated to prepare and file with the SEC within 150 days of the issue date of the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes, or April 27, 2008, a registration statement to exchange the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes for registered, publicly tradable notes that have substantially identical terms as the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes. We are to use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective within 240 day of the issue date of the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes, or July 24, 2008. In the event we fail to meet our registration obligations we will be required to pay additional cash interest on the 12 3/4% Senior Secured Notes equal to 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period, increasing an additional 0.25% the next 90-day period, to a maximum of 0.50% per annum. Issuance of the common shares upon conversion of our convertible debenture will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We are obligated to issue a substantial number of common shares upon conversion of our convertible debentures. These issuances will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon conversion of additional common shares could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of these convertible debentures may encourage short selling by market participants. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 