Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. As a bank holding company, our earnings are dependent upon the performance of the Bank and the Bank’s subsidiaries. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Various state and federal laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to a parent holding company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. If economic conditions decline, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, governmental policies of the communities in which we do business and actions of regulatory authorities. A decline in the local or national economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: • A decline in the demand for the products and services we offer; • An increase in nonperforming loans and loan charge-offs; • An increase in provisions for loan losses; • An increase in losses on real estate owned (acquired through foreclosure); and • A migration from low-yielding or noninterest bearing deposits to higher-yielding deposit products such as time deposits. Our loan origination and purchase activity is highly concentrated in certain types of loans. At December 31, 2006, $1.8 billion, or 47.6%, of our total loans consisted of multi-family residential, commercial real estate, land and land development, commercial construction and business loans. This portfolio of loans has grown is recent years and we intend to continue our emphasis in these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of such loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2006, $781.0 million, or 21.2%, of our total loans consisted of residential construction loans. Our portfolio of residential construction loans has increased dramatically over the past three years as a result of our emphasis on loans with relatively higher yields, adjustable interest rates and/or shorter terms to maturity. Risk of loss on a residential construction loan is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value when completed compared to the projected cost (including interest) of construction and other assumptions, including the approximate time to sell the property. Our ability to continue to originate and/or purchase residential construction loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate markets, or by acts of nature. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral, these events could have a material adverse impact on the value of collateral, resulting in delinquencies and/or losses. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced by a weaker economy, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. 34 Our concentration of loans in certain areas of Florida may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2006, we had 535 residential construction loan commitments in the Cape Coral area of Lee County in Florida totaling $144.9 million with disbursed funds totaling $84.2 million. At December 31, 2006, $13.7 million of our nonperforming residential construction loans were located in Florida. Approximately $9.4 million of our nonperforming residential construction loans in Florida were located in the Cape Coral area of Lee County. Working with a local Florida-based mortgage brokerage firm, we acquired nine- to 18-month residential construction loans for individual homebuyers who represented to us their intention to build a second or retirement home in the Cape Coral area. A substantial increase in the number of residential construction building permit applications, coupled with other contributing factors in the Cape Coral area in 2006, resulted in delays affecting the commencement of construction. In some cases, these delays extended beyond the original term of the residential construction loan. As a result of these factors, some borrowers in the Cape Coral area have not kept current on their contractual loan payment obligation and are now 90 or more days delinquent. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, also known as the Federal Reserve Board, regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which impact our net interest margin, and can significantly affect the value of financial instruments such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Its policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict or anticipate. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We have provided for current and deferred income taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, and interpretations of tax statutes. We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge by federal and state taxing authorities. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. If the interest payments on our interest-bearing liabilities increase relative to the interest we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, however, changes in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Prevailing interest rates may significantly affect the overall demand for loans and could also impact the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. Loan prepayments and refinancings, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, may increase in a declining interest rate environment. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government securities and agency obligations and corporate securities may also negatively impact net interest income in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayment, refinancing and security call activity may negatively impact the yield of our loan portfolio and investment and mortgage-backed security portfolios, as we would reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. Additionally, adjustable-rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount interest rates can increase or decrease at repricing dates. 35 In a decreasing interest rate environment, our level of core deposits may decline if our depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investment products we are unwilling to offer. This may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent that alternative funding sources are utilized to fund our business activities. In an increasing interest rate environment, depositors tend to prefer higher-yielding time deposits which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. An inadequate allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure full repayment. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide for an allowance for loan losses which is based on our historical loan loss experience for each group of loans as further adjusted for specific factors. If our evaluation is incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance for loan losses. Increases in the allowance for loan losses result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are warranted, we may incur additional expenses. We can make no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. Our loans are primarily secured by real estate, including regional concentrations of loans in areas of the United States that are susceptible to tornados, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters. If a natural disaster were to occur in one of our major market areas, loan losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties under our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal, remediation or other clean-up on the acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property or that costs could be recovered from any third party. Additionally, it may be difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates or competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in capital markets, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds primarily through deposits and borrowings. Generally, deposits are a preferable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If deposit growth is inadequate to fund our operations, we may have to rely on borrowings as a source of funds. Relying on borrowings as a primary funding source may have an adverse impact on our net interest margin. 36 Competition could result in our loan portfolios and deposit base declining. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, some of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors. Competition within the banking, mortgage and finance industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Our competition for loans comes primarily from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, our loan and deposit growth may be inhibited which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS as our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, which insures our deposits. As a member of the FHLBank, we must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLBank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. Our activities are also regulated under consumer protections laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. There are risks associated with potential acquisitions. We may enter into transactions to acquire other banks or financial institutions from time to time that further our business strategy. Acquisitions involve numerous risks including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties in the integration of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention from other business matters, changes in relationships with customers and the potential loss of key employees. Any acquisition would be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approvals. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired institutions into our operations. Our ability to grow may be limited if we are unable to successfully make future acquisitions. We may not be able to retain or replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified customer relationship managers. We depend on the services of existing management personnel to carry out our business and investment strategies. It is critical that we are able to attract and retain management and other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is significant in our geographical market areas. The loss of services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers. An interruption in these third-party systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan servicing and loan origination systems. We can make no assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. Any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services. We can make no assurances that we could negotiate terms that are favorable to us, or could obtain comparable services without the need to expend substantial resources. 37 Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; changes in our stockholder dividend policy; recommendations of securities analysts; and news media reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors that may influence our stock price include products or services offered by our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or analysts deem comparable to us; and changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic conditions and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause our stock price to decline regardless of our operating results. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide accurate and reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations would be adversely effected. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) that require remediation. Under PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies, which results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably in accordance with GAAP such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain effective internal and disclosure controls, or to make necessary improvements in such controls in a timely manner, could harm operating results or cause us to fail in meeting our financial reporting obligations. Such a failure could have an impact on our ability to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 