Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain information contained in this Report, including information regarding future financial results, performance and plans, expectations, and objectives of management, constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Canadian securities laws and forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We refer to all of these as forward-looking statements. Statements that include the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “target”, “outlook”, “estimate,” “continue,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “potential,” “believe,” “project,” “anticipate” and similar statements of a forward-looking nature, or the negatives of those statements, identify forward-looking statements. In particular, this Report contains forward-looking statements pertaining to, among other matters: general global economic conditions; our business strategy; our plans and objectives for future operations; our industry; our future economic performance, profitability and financial condition; the costs of operating as a public company; and our R&D expenditures. Forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual events or results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are based on assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. In making these statements we have made certain assumptions. While we believe our plans, intentions, expectations, assumptions and strategies reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that these plans, intentions, expectations assumptions and strategies will be achieved. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Report as a result of various factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed below. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth in this Report. Except as required by law, we are under no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Relating to our Business Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated, and the results of one period may not provide a reliable indicator of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated and are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. A number of factors may cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including: • general economic conditions; • the fact that an individual order or contract can represent a substantial amount of revenues for that period; • the size, timing and shipment of individual orders; • changes in pricing or discount levels by us or our competitors; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • the mix of products sold by us; • the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the ability to execute on our strategy and operating plans; • ability to realize our deferred tax assets; and • changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting rules. As a result of the above factors, a quarterly or yearly comparison of our results of operations is not necessarily meaningful. Prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions in key markets, particularly the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. Challenging economic conditions worldwide, particularly in the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe, have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications industry at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in, but not limited to: • reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers; 10 Table of Contents • increased price competition for our products; • risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • risk of supply constraints; • risk of manufacturing capacity; and • higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense. Instability in the global credit markets, including the European economic zone and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn and, if global economic and market conditions or economic conditions in key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate, we may experience material negative impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on our channel partners for a significant component of our sales and so disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of channel partners. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived through our channel partners, most of which also sell our competitors’ products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these channel partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to these channel partners could materially reduce our revenues. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in causing our channel partners or potential channel partners to favor their products or prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channel partners, fail to develop new relationships with channel partners in new markets or expand the number of channel partners in existing markets, or if we fail to manage, train or provide appropriate incentives to existing channel partners or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our solutions may decrease and our operating results would suffer. Many potential channel partners in the voice communications business have established relationships with our competitors and may not be willing to invest the time and resources required to train their staff to effectively market our solutions and services. Potential channel partners engaged in the data and software applications communications businesses are less likely to have established relationships with our competitors, but where they are unfamiliar with the voice communications business, they may require substantially more training and other resources to be qualified to sell our solutions. If changes to our business strategy are not successfully implemented and accepted by our customers, our business could be negatively affected. During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we implemented a number of key changes to our business strategy involving, among other things: • simplifying our business model to more effectively and efficiently support the sales, licensing and marketing of our communications solutions to customers; • reallocating our spending on R&D with greater emphasis on integrated communications solutions that support the needs of customers that have between 100 and 2,500 users; • reorganizing our U.S. sales organization by increasing investment in our indirect channel, and focusing our direct sales team on a select group of customers; and • continuing our investment, and increasing our market leadership, in voice virtualization. In January 2012, we continued to execute our strategy to simplify our business and streamline our organization by making the decision to pursue the sale of our Datanet business unit. Although we anticipate that a sale will be completed within one year, we are in the process of identifying a purchaser and there is no assurance of when or if a sale will be completed. If these changes to our business strategy are not aligned with the direction our customers take as they invest in the evolution of their networks and telephony needs, our customers may not buy our solutions or continue to use our services. Any failure by us to successfully execute on one or more changes to our business strategy could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from many competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively against these competitors. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. We compete against many companies, including and in particular, in the case of MCS, Avaya Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc., as well as Aastra Technologies Limited, Alcatel-Lucent S.A., NEC Corporation, Panasonic Corporation, 11 Table of Contents ShoreTel, Inc., Siemens Enterprise Networks and Toshiba Corporation, and, in the case of NetSolutions, AT&T Inc., CBeyond Inc., Cypress Communications, Inc., 8X8, Inc., Fonality, Inc., J2 Global, Inc., Panterra Networks, Inc., Sprint Nextel Corporation, Telesphere Networks, Ltd., T-Mobile USA, Inc., U.S. Telepacific Corp., Verizon Communications Inc., West IP Communications, Inc. and XO Holdings, Inc. In addition, because the market for our solutions is subject to rapidly changing technologies, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in our business communications market, including companies that currently compete in other sectors of the information technology, communications or software industries, such as Microsoft Corporation and Google Inc., mobile communications companies or communications companies that serve residential, rather than business, customers. Our industry has also experienced and may continue to experience consolidation that may adversely impact our competitive position. Several of our existing competitors have, and many of our future potential competitors may have, greater financial, personnel, research, project management and other resources, more well-established brands or reputations and broader customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of these competitors may also have customer bases that are more diversified than ours and therefore may be less affected by an economic downturn in a particular region. Competitors with greater resources may also be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we do not offer or cannot match. In addition, existing customers of data communications companies that compete against us may be more inclined to purchase business communications solutions from their current data communications vendor than from us. We cannot predict which competitors may enter our markets in the future, what form the competition may take or whether we will be able to respond effectively to the entry of new competitors or the rapid evolution in technology and product development that has characterized our markets. Competition from existing and potential market entrants may take many forms. Our products must interface with customer software, equipment and systems in their networks, each of which may have different specifications. To the extent our competitors supply network software, equipment or systems to our customers, it is possible these competitors could design their technologies to be closed or proprietary systems that are incompatible with our products or work less effectively with our products than their own. As a result, customers would have an incentive to purchase products that are compatible with the products and technologies of our competitors over our products. A lack of interoperability may result in significant redesign costs, and harm relations with our customers. If our products do not interoperate with our customers’ networks, installations could be delayed or orders for our products could be cancelled, which would result in losses of revenues and customers that could significantly harm our business. In addition, our competitors may provide large bundled offerings that incorporate applications and products similar to those that we offer. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may be required to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete effectively, which would reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our solutions may fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The markets for our solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and changing business models. Therefore, our operating results depend, among other things, on existing and new markets, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions and our ability to reduce the production costs of existing solutions. The process of anticipating trends and evolving industry standards and developing new solutions is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict and respond to our customers’ changing needs, and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We commit significant resources to developing new solutions before knowing whether our investments will result in solutions that the market will accept. The success of new solutions depends on several factors, including new application and product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these solutions, differentiation of new solutions from those of our competitors and market acceptance of these solutions. We may not be able to successfully identify new market opportunities for our solutions, develop and bring new solutions to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our solutions. The evolving markets for virtualized, cloud-based and hosted UCC solutions are subject to market risks and uncertainties that could cause significant delays and expenses. We have made a significant investment in developing our IP-based communications solutions and transitioning our distribution channels to take advantage of the industry’s shift from legacy systems to IP-based communications solutions. The market is evolving rapidly and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. As is typical of a rapidly evolving industry, the demand for and market acceptance is uncertain. If the market fails to develop, develops more slowly than we anticipate or develops in a manner different than we expect, our solutions could fail to achieve market acceptance, which in turn could significantly harm our business. Moreover, as the market usage grows, the infrastructure used to support these services, whether public or private, may not be able to support the demands placed on them and their performance or reliability may decline. Even if the market becomes more widespread in the future, our solutions may not attain broad market acceptance. The adoption of solutions in this market on both desktop computers and mobile devices at a rate faster than we currently anticipate may lead to a decline in the utilization of distinct IP and digital devices and a reduction in our desktop device revenues. In addition, the evolution towards virtualized, cloud-based and hosted UCC and IP telephony applications delivered as a service may occur faster and more extensively than currently anticipated, which may adversely impact the sale of our non-hosted communications solutions. 12 Table of Contents We are dependent on our customers’ decisions to deploy IP telephony solutions. Our business remains dependant on customer decisions to migrate their legacy telephony infrastructure to IP telephony and other advanced service delivery methods. While these investment decisions are often driven by macroeconomic factors, customers may also delay adoption of IP telephony due to a range of other factors, including prioritization of other IT projects and weighing the costs and benefits of deploying new infrastructures and devices. IP telephony adoption among new and additional IP telephony customers may not grow at the rates we currently anticipate. Our business may be harmed if we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others. Our competitors, as well as a number of individuals, patent holding companies and consortiums, own, or claim to own, intellectual property relating to our industry. Our solutions may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing third party patent, or the issuance of new third party patents, would require us to alter our solutions, obtain licenses, pay royalties or discontinue the sale of the affected applications and products. Our competitors may use their patent portfolios in an increasingly offensive manner in the future. We are currently and periodically involved in patent infringement disputes with third parties, including claims that have been made against us for the payment of licensing fees. We have received notices in the past, and we may receive additional notices in the future, containing allegations that our solutions are subject to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, including competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums. Current or future negotiations with third parties to establish license or cross-license arrangements, or to renew existing licenses, may not be successful and we may not be able to obtain or renew a license on satisfactory terms, or at all. If required licenses cannot be obtained, or if existing licenses are not renewed, litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success also depends upon our customers’ ability to use our products. Claims of patent infringement have been asserted against some of our channel partners based on their use of our solutions. We generally agree to indemnify and defend our channel partners and direct customers to the extent a claim for infringement is brought against our customers with respect to our solutions. Aggressive patent litigation is common in our industry and can be disruptive. Infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) have been, are currently and may in the future be asserted or prosecuted against us, our channel partners or our customers by third parties. Some of these third parties, including our competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums, have, or have access to, substantially greater resources than we do and may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation. Whether or not the claims currently pending against us, our channel partners or our customers, or those that may be brought in the future, have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings. Such claims could also harm our reputation and divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages (including enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees if infringement is found to be willful). We could also be forced to obtain a license, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, forced to redesign our solutions to make them non-infringing, which redesign may not be possible or, if possible, costly and time-consuming, or prevented from selling some or all of our solutions. Our success is dependent on our intellectual property. Our inability or failure to secure, protect and maintain our intellectual property could seriously harm our ability to compete and our financial success. Our success depends on the intellectual property in the solutions that we develop and sell. We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. Our present protective measures may not be enforceable or adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent third-party development of the same or similar technology. Even if our patents are held valid and enforceable, others may be able to design around these patents or develop products competitive to our products but that are outside the scope of our patents. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We may not be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to our solutions could be impaired, which could significantly impede our ability to market our products, negatively affect our competitive position and materially harm our business and operating results. Pending or future patent applications held by us may not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Furthermore, many foreign jurisdictions offer less protection of intellectual property rights than the United States and Canada, and the protection provided to our proprietary technology by the laws of these and other foreign jurisdictions may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Preventing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology may be difficult, time consuming and costly, in part because it may be difficult to discover unauthorized use by third parties. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual 13 Table of Contents property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of unenforceability or invalidity. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition regardless of its outcome. Some of the software used with our products, as well as that of some of our customers, may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is made generally available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available to us under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to make derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, or license such derivative works under an open source license or another particular type of license, potentially granting third parties certain rights to the software, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. Failure to comply with such obligations can result in the termination of our distribution of products that contain the open source code or the public dissemination of any enhancements that we made to the open source code. We may also incur legal expenses in defending against claims that we did not abide by such open source licenses. In the event the copyright holder of any open source software or another party in interest were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be subject to potential damages and could be required to release the source code of that work to the public, grant third parties certain rights to the source code or stop distribution of that work. Any of these outcomes could disrupt our distribution and sale of related products and materially adversely affect our business. We rely on trade secrets and other forms of non-patent intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach these agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any specific breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our partners, collaborators, employees and consultants use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in the related or resulting know-how and inventions. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other technologies not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees may have been previously employed at other companies which provide integrated communications solutions, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain product candidates, which would adversely affect our commercial development efforts, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and we may require additional sources of funds if our sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund our operations. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to meet anticipated working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. In order to finance our business, we may need to utilize available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to terminate on August 16, 2012. Our ability to continually access this facility prior to its termination is conditioned upon our compliance with current and potential future covenants contained in the credit agreements governing our revolving credit facility and term loan facility. We may not be in compliance with such covenants in the future. We may need to secure additional sources of funding if our cash and borrowings under our revolving credit facility are unavailable or insufficient to finance our operations. Such funding may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. In addition, any proceeds from the issuance of equity or debt may be required to be used, in whole or in part, to make mandatory payments under our credit agreements. If we were to incur higher levels of debt, we would require a larger portion of our operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as R&D expenses and capital expenditures. In addition, any new debt instruments may contain covenants or other restrictions that affect our business operations. If we were to raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. 14 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of debt, which is scheduled to mature in August 2014 and August 2015. This debt contains customary default clauses, a breach of which may result in acceleration of the repayment of some or all of this debt. As of April 30, 2012, we had $176.2 million outstanding under our first lien term loan, which is scheduled to mature in August 2014 and $129.9 million outstanding under our second lien term loan, which is scheduled to mature in August 2015. The credit agreements relating to these loans and the revolving credit facility have customary default clauses. In the event we were to default on these credit agreements, and were unable to cure or obtain a waiver of default, the repayment of our debt owing under these credit agreements may be accelerated. If acceleration were to occur, we would be required to secure alternative sources of equity or debt financing to be able to repay the debt. Alternative financing may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. If acceptable alternative financing were unavailable, we would have to consider alternatives to fund the repayment of the debt, including the sale of part or all of the business, which sale may occur at a distressed price. Our working capital requirements and cash flows are subject to fluctuation which could have an adverse affect on us. Our working capital requirements and cash flows have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. For example, if we are unable to effectively manage fluctuations in our cash flows, we may be unable to make required interest payments on our indebtedness. Factors which could result in cash flow fluctuations include: • the level of sales and the related margins on those sales; • the collection of receivables; • the timing and volume of sales of leases to third party funding sources and the timing and volume of any repurchase obligations in respect of such sales; • the timing and size of capital expenditures; • the timing and size of purchase of inventory and related components; • the timing of payment on payables and accrued liabilities; • costs associated with potential restructuring actions; and • customer financing obligations. Because we depend upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers, our operations could be delayed or interrupted if we encounter problems with these contractors. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities, and we rely primarily upon two contract manufacturers: Flextronics and Sanmina. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed or interrupted as a result of a variety of factors relating to our contract manufacturers, including: • failure to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships; • our contract manufacturers experiencing delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations; • lead-times for required materials and components varying significantly and being dependent on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time; • under-estimating our requirements, resulting in our contract manufacturers having inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, or overestimating our requirements, resulting in charges assessed by the contract manufacturers or liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins; and • the possible absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over component availability, quality assurances, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. We are also exposed to risks relating to the financial viability of our contract manufacturers as a result of business and industry risks that affect those manufacturers. In order to finance their businesses during economic downturns or otherwise, Flextronics and Sanmina may need to secure additional sources of equity or debt financing. Such funding may not be available on terms satisfactory to them, or at all, which could result in a material disruption to our production requirements. If any of our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and quality levels, we will have to identify, qualify, select and implement acceptable alternative manufacturers, which would likely be time consuming and costly. In particular, each of Flextronics 15 Table of Contents and Sanmina are sole manufacturing sources for certain of our products. A failure of either of these parties to satisfy our manufacturing needs on a timely basis, as a result of the factors described above or otherwise, could result in a material disruption to our business until another manufacturer is identified and able to produce the same products, which could take a substantial amount of time, during which our results of operations, financial condition and reputation among our customers and within our industry could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, alternate sources may not be available to us or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Therefore, any significant interruption in manufacturing could result in us being unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components. If these components are not available on a timely basis, or at all, we may not be able to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components of our products. In addition, our contract manufacturers often acquire these components through purchase orders and may have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing from their suppliers. Lead times for various components may lengthen, which may make certain components scarce. As component demand increases and lead-times become longer, our suppliers may increase component costs. We also depend on anticipated product orders to determine our materials requirements. Lead times for limited source materials and components can be as long as six months, vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. From time to time, shortages in allocations of components have resulted in delays in filling orders. Shortages and delays in obtaining components in the future could impede our ability to meet customer orders. Any of these sole source or limited source suppliers could stop producing the components, cease operations entirely, or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors. As a result, these sole source and limited source suppliers may stop selling their components to our contract manufacturers at commercially reasonable prices, or at all. Any such interruption, delay or inability to obtain these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and reduce margins realized by us. Delay in the delivery of, or lack of access to, software or other intellectual property licensed from our suppliers could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver our solutions on a timely and reliable basis. Our business may be harmed by a delay in delivery of software applications from one or more of our suppliers. Many of our solutions are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various components in our solutions. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our solutions of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights to our solutions. Non-exclusive licenses also allow our suppliers to develop relationships with, and supply similar or the same software applications to, our competitors. Our software licenses could terminate in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of a software supplier or other third party licensor. Our software licenses could also terminate in the event such software infringes third party intellectual property rights. We have not entered into source code escrow agreements with every software supplier or third party licensor, and we could lose the ability to use such licensed software or implement it in our solutions in the event the licensor breaches its obligations to us. In the event that software suppliers or other third party licensors terminate their relationships with us, are unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or their licenses are otherwise terminated, we may be unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders. Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control. We do business in over 100 countries. Accordingly, our results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors relating to international business operations, including: • macroeconomic conditions adversely affecting geographies where we do business; • foreign currency exchange rates; • political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region; • higher costs of doing business in foreign countries; • infringement claims on foreign patents, copyrights or trademark rights; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, which affect our ability to import or export our products from or to various countries; • adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; 16 Table of Contents • military conflict, terrorist activities, natural disasters and medical epidemics; and • our ability to recruit and retain channel partners in foreign jurisdictions. Our financial results may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, and our current currency hedging strategy may not be sufficient to counter such fluctuations. Our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our business is conducted, and a substantial portion of our operating expenses are payable, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Due to the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, exchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse impact on our future revenues or expenses presented in our financial statements. We use financial instruments, principally forward exchange contracts, in our management of foreign currency exposure. These contracts primarily require us to purchase and sell certain foreign currencies with or for U.S. dollars at contracted rates. We may be exposed to a credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties of these contracts. In addition, these financial instruments may not adequately manage our foreign currency exposure. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully manage currency fluctuations in the future. Our financial results will be negatively impacted if we are unable to realize our deferred tax assets As at our fiscal year end, April 30, 2012, our balance sheet contained a $35.8 million valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Future losses or reduced estimates of future income may result in an increase to the partial valuation allowance or even a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets in future periods, which will negatively impact our results. See “Management Discussions & Analysis—Critical Accounting Policies—Deferred Taxes”. Transfer pricing rules may adversely affect our income tax expenses. We conduct business operations in various jurisdictions and through legal entities in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere. We and certain of our subsidiaries provide solutions and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. The tax laws of many of these jurisdictions have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s length pricing principles. Contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The taxation authorities in the jurisdictions where we carry on business could challenge our transfer pricing policies. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these taxation authorities are successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. Any increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. Our operating results may be impacted by our ability to sell leases derived from our managed services offering, or a breach of our obligations in respect of such sales. We offer customers the ability to bundle all their managed service communication expense into a single monthly payment lease, which we then generally pool and sell to third party financial institutions. We derive revenues from the direct sale of pools of leases to third party financial institutions, many of whom have been impacted by challenging macroeconomic events. These leases are recurring revenue streams for us and typically produce attractive gross margins. If we are unable to secure attractive funding rates or sell these leases, our operating results would suffer. The challenging macroeconomic conditions, coupled with our level of indebtedness, have adversely impacted our ability to sell these leases in the past and may do so again in the future. Moreover, particularly in the current economic environment, the timing, volume and profitability of lease sales from quarter to quarter could impact our operating results. We have historically sold these pools of leases at least once per quarter. Furthermore, when the initial term of the lease is concluded, our customers have the option to renew the lease at a payment and term less than the original lease. We have typically held these customer lease renewals on our balance sheet, although we could also elect to sell these renewals to a third party financial institution. In the event of defaults by lease customers under leases that have been sold, financial institutions that purchased the pool of such leases may require us to repurchase the remaining unpaid portion of such sold leases, subject to certain annual limitations on recourse for credit losses. The size of credit losses may impact our ability to sell future pools of leases. Under the terms of the program agreements governing the sale of these pools of leases, we are subject to ongoing obligations in connection with the servicing of the underlying leases. If we are unable to perform these obligations or are otherwise in default under a program agreement, and are unable to cure or obtain a waiver of such default, we could be required by the purchaser to repurchase the entire unpaid portion of the leases sold to such purchaser, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Credit and commercial risks and exposures could increase if the financial condition of our customers declines. We provide or commit to financing, where appropriate, for our customers. Our ability to arrange or provide financing for our customers depends on a number of factors, including our credit rating, our level of available credit and our ability to sell off commitments on acceptable terms. Pursuant to certain of our customer contracts, we deliver solutions representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any significant payment from the customer. As a result of the financing that may be provided to customers and our commercial risk exposure under long-term contracts, our business could be adversely affected if the financial condition of our customers erodes. Upon the financial failure of a customer, we may experience losses on credit extended and loans made to such customer, losses relating to our commercial risk exposure, and the loss of the customer’s ongoing business. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us or the recurring revenue stream from customer financings is lost, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Design defects, errors, failures or “bugs,” which may be difficult to detect, may occur in our solutions. We sell highly complex solutions that incorporate both hardware and software. Our software may contain “bugs” that can interfere with expected operations. Our pre-shipment testing and field trial programs may not be adequate to detect all defects in individual applications and products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or “bugs” in solutions that we had shipped. Any future remediation may have a material impact on our business. Our inability to cure an application or product defect could result in the failure of an application or product line, the temporary or permanent withdrawal from an application, product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, lawsuits by customers or customers’ or channel partners’ end users, or application or product reengineering expenses. The sale and support of solutions containing defects and errors may result in product liability claims and warranty claims. Our insurance may not cover or may be insufficient to cover claims that are successfully asserted against us or our contract suppliers and manufacturers. Our business may suffer if our strategic alliances are not successful. We have a number of strategic alliances, including VMware, Inc. and Research in Motion Limited, and continue to pursue strategic alliances with other companies. The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. If a strategic alliance fails to perform as expected or if the relationship is terminated, we could experience delays in product availability or impairment of our relationships with customers, and our ability to develop new solutions in response to industry trends or changing technology may be impaired. In addition, we may face increased competition if a third party acquires one or more of our strategic alliances or if our competitors enter into additional successful strategic relationships. We may make strategic acquisitions in the future. We may not be successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to ours. Any such acquisition or investment could materially adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common shares. Acquisitions and other strategic investments involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • difficulties in integrating new products, software, businesses, operations and technology infrastructure in an efficient and effective manner; • difficulties in maintaining customer relations; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; • the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; • the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; • the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership; • the potential to incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures. 18 Table of Contents Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations and those of our contract manufacturers and outsourced service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood or other natural disaster, power loss, computer viruses, security breaches, computer systems failure, telecommunications failure, quarantines, national catastrophe, terrorist activities, war and other events beyond our control. Our disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to address these interruptions. The coverage or limits of our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate for any losses or damages that may occur. Problems with the infrastructure of carriers may impair the performance of our NetSolutions business unit solutions and cause problems with the network services we provide to our customers. We purchase network capacity wholesale from carriers, which we resell to our customers in various retail offerings. The infrastructures of these telecom carriers are vulnerable to interruption by fires, earthquakes, hurricanes and other similar natural disasters, as well as power loss, computer viruses, security breaches, acts of terrorism, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. The occurrence of such a natural disaster or misconduct, or outages affecting these carrier networks, could impair the performance of our solutions and lead to interruptions, delays or cessation of network services to our customers. Any impairment of the performance of our solutions or problems in providing our network services to our customers, even if for a limited time, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Governmental regulation could harm our operating results and future prospects. Governments in a number of jurisdictions in which we conduct business have imposed export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, including some of the technologies used in our solutions. Changes in these or other laws or regulations could adversely affect our revenues. A number of governments also have laws and regulations that govern technical specifications for the provision of our solutions. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect the sales of, decrease the demand for and increase the cost of, our solutions. For example, the Federal Communications Commission may issue regulatory pronouncements from time to time that may mandate new standards for our equipment in the United States. These pronouncements could require costly changes to our hardware and software. Additionally, certain government agencies currently require VoIP products to be certified through a lengthy testing process. Other government agencies may adopt similar lengthy certification procedures, which could delay the delivery of our products and adversely affect our revenues. Our NetSolutions business unit relies on carriers to provide local and long distance services, including voice and data circuits, and mobile voice and data services to our customers and to provide us with billing information. These services are subject to extensive and uncertain governmental regulation on both the federal and local level. An increase or change in government regulation could restrict our ability to provide these services to our customers, which may have a material adverse affect on our business. Adverse resolution of litigation or governmental investigations may harm our operating results or financial condition. We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. We may also be the subject of governmental investigations from time to time. Litigation and governmental investigations can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings or governmental investigations are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. See “Litigation” in Item 3 of Part I in this Report. We are exposed to risks inherent in our defined benefit pension plan. We currently maintain a defined benefit pension plan for a number of our past and present employees in the United Kingdom. The plan was closed to new employees in June 2001. The contributions to fund benefit obligations under this plan are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on assumptions and estimates about the long-term operation of the plan, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and interest rates. If the actual operation of the plan differs from these assumptions, additional contributions by us may be required. As of April 30, 2012, the projected benefit obligation of $213.4 million exceeded the fair value of the plan assets of $138.2 million, resulting in a pension liability of $75.2 million. In October 2010, funding requirements under the plan were set for the three years commencing January 1, 2011 at 8.7% of current pensionable salaries for current members plus annual payments totaling 2.5 million pounds sterling towards the reduction of the accumulated deficit (increasing by 3% per annum for calendar year 2012 and 2013). Our funding requirements for future years may increase from these current levels. Changes to pension legislation in the United Kingdom may also adversely affect our funding requirements. 19 Table of Contents Our future success depends on our existing key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the services of key personnel throughout our organization, including the members of our senior management and software and engineering staff, as well as the expertise of our directors. Competition for highly skilled directors, management, R&D and other employees is intense in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain highly qualified directors, management, and R&D personnel and other employees in the future. In order to improve productivity, a portion of our compensation to employees and directors is in the form of stock option grants, and as a consequence, a depression in the value of our common shares could make it difficult for us to motivate and retain employees and recruit additional qualified directors and personnel. All of the foregoing may negatively impact our ability to retain or attract employees, which may adversely impact our ability to implement a management succession plan as and if required and on a timely basis. We currently do not maintain corporate life insurance policies on the lives of our directors or any of our key employees. The risks associated with Sarbanes-Oxley regulatory compliance may have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered chartered accountants can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If our independent registered chartered accountants cannot render an opinion or if material weaknesses in our internal control are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. Risks Related to our Common Shares Our stock price in the past has been volatile, and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares. Our stock has been publicly traded on The Nasdaq Global Market for approximately two years. At times, the stock price has been volatile. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control and which may be accentuated due to the relatively low average daily trading volume in our common shares. The factors include: • fluctuations in the overall stock market; • our quarterly operating results; • sales of our common shares by principal security holders; • the exercise of options and subsequent sales of shares by option holders, including those held by our senior management and other employees; • departures of key personnel; • future announcements concerning our or our competitors’ businesses; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our company and/or changes in financial forecasts and recommendations by securities analysts; • a rating downgrade or other negative action by a ratings organization; • actual or anticipated developments in our competitors’ businesses or the competitive landscape generally; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • general market, economic and political conditions; • regulatory developments; and • natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the Nasdaq Global Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have initiated securities class action litigation following declines in stock prices of technology companies. Any future litigation may subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could harm our business and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Each of the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group is a significant security-holder and each has the potential to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders and, in the case of the Francisco Partners Group, over matters requiring approval by our board. As of June 8, 2012, Francisco Partners Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates, or the Francisco Partners Group, and Dr. Matthews and certain entities controlled by Dr. Matthews, or the Matthews Group, beneficially controlled approximately 40.0% and 23.0%, respectively, of the voting power of our share capital. Pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement, or the Shareholders’ Agreement, between the Company, the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group dated as of April 27, 2010, the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group collectively have the right to nominate 50% of our directors, provided certain criteria are met. The Shareholders’ Agreement also provides that we may not take certain significant actions without the approval of the Francisco Partners Group, so long as they own at least 15% of our outstanding common shares. These actions include: • amendments to our articles or by-laws; • issuance of any securities that are senior to our common shares in respect of dividend, liquidation preference or other rights and privileges; • issuance of equity securities or rights, options or warrants to purchase equity securities, with certain exceptions where we issue securities pursuant to our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, in connection with acquisitions that involve the issuance of less than $25 million of our securities, upon the conversion of our currently outstanding warrants, as consideration paid to consultants for services provided to us, or in connection with technology licensing or other non-equity interim financing transactions; • declaring or paying any dividends or making any distribution or return of capital, whether in cash, in stock or in specie, on any equity securities; • incurring, assuming or otherwise becoming liable for debt obligations, other than refinancing our debt obligations following the closing of this offering and the application of the intended use of proceeds, incurring additional indebtedness in connection with our leasing program, or incurring up to $50 million in new indebtedness; • mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets or material subsidiaries, or the entering into any joint venture, partnership or similar arrangement that have a value of more than $25 million per such transaction; • any change in the number of directors that comprise our board of directors; • an amalgamation, merger or other corporate reorganization by the Company with or into any other corporation (other than a short-form amalgamation with a wholly-owned subsidiary), an agreement to sell or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or other transaction that has the effect of a change of control of the Company; and • any liquidation, winding up, dissolution or bankruptcy or other distribution of the assets of the Company to its shareholders. Such powers held by the Francisco Partners Group could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, business combination or other transaction that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Also, each of the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group may have interests that differ from the interests of our other shareholders. The Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group and the persons whom they nominate to our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. The Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group and the persons whom they nominate to our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are divergent from, our own interests and those of our other shareholders. Conflicts of interest between our principal investors and us or our other shareholders may arise. Our articles of incorporation do not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest, or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to our principal investors and us will be reserved for or made available to us. In addition, our significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling shareholders. Some of our directors have interests that may be different than our interests. We do business with certain companies that are related parties, such as Wesley Clover and its subsidiaries. Wesley Clover is controlled by Dr. Matthews. Our directors owe fiduciary duties, including the duties of loyalty and confidentiality, to us. Our directors that serve on the boards of companies that we do business with also owe similar fiduciary duties to such other companies. The duties owed to us could conflict with the duties such directors owe to these other companies. 21 Table of Contents Ownership of our common shares by the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group as well as provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and in certain anti-trust and foreign investment legislation, may reduce the likelihood of a change of control occurring and, as a consequence, may deprive shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium. The voting power of the Francisco Partners Group and the Matthews Group, respectively, under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium. In addition, provisions of our articles of incorporation and Canadian and U.S. law may delay or impede a change of control transaction. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, the Competition Act (Canada) and other applicable antitrust legislation. Such legislation generally permits the relevant governmental authorities to review any acquisition of control over or of significant interest in us, and grants the authority to challenge or prevent an acquisition on the basis that it would, or would be likely to, result in a substantial prevention or lessening of competition. In addition, the Investment Canada Act subjects an “acquisition of control” of a “Canadian business” (as those terms are defined therein) by a non-Canadian to government review if the book value of the Canadian business’ assets as calculated pursuant to the legislation exceeds a threshold amount. A reviewable acquisition may not proceed unless the relevant minister is satisfied that the investment is likely to be of net benefit to Canada. Any of the foregoing could prevent or delay a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium. You may be unable to bring actions or enforce judgments against us or certain of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We are incorporated under the laws of Canada, and our principal executive offices are located in Canada. A majority of our officers and certain of our directors named in this Report reside principally in Canada and a substantial portion of our assets and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons. Furthermore, it may not be possible for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States against us or those persons. There is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Canadian courts of liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, and as to the enforceability in Canadian courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 