Risk Factors Related to Our Common Shares Our common shares are unsecured equity interests in the Company. As an equity interest, our common shares are not secured by any of our assets. Therefore, in the event we are liquidated, the holders of our common shares will receive a distribution only after all of our secured and unsecured creditors have been paid in full. In the event of a liquidation, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets after paying our secured and unsecured creditors to make any distribution to the holders of our commons shares. Our common share price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common shares are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of drilling and rig activity, economic conditions in the natural gas and oil industry, general economic conditions or other events or factors that are 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements beyond our control. Information about the market price of our common shares for 2007 and 2008 is set forth in Item 5. “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Market Information”. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for natural gas and oil exploration companies, in particular, have experienced large price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or asset values of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously impact the market price and trading volume of our common shares regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. If this type of litigation were instituted against us following a period of volatility in our common shares trading price, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Future issuances of our common shares may adversely affect the price of our common shares. The future issuance of a substantial number of common shares into the public market, or the perception that such an issuance could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. A decline in the price of our common shares could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of our common shares or securities convertible into common shares. Our ability to issue an unlimited number of our common shares under our articles of incorporation may result in dilution or make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. Unlike most corporations formed in the United States, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation chartered under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada permit the board of directors to issue an unlimited number of new common shares without shareholder approval, subject only to the rules of the NYSE Alternext US LLC and the Toronto Stock Exchange or any future exchange on which our common shares might trade. The issuance of a large number of common shares could be affected by our directors to thwart a takeover attempt or offer for us by a third party, even if doing so would not benefit our shareholders, which could result in the common shares being valued less in the market. The issuance or the threat of issuance of a large number of common shares at prices that are dilutive to the outstanding common shares could also result in the common shares being valued less in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 