risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and could adversely impact our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposit taking processes, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations regarding the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent troubles faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in the credit markets. We rely on commercial and retail deposits, advances from the FHLBank and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might be unable to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLBank or market conditions were to change. We may be unable to comply with the provisions of our supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision. On January 15, 2009, the Bank entered into a supervisory agreement with the OTS. The supervisory agreement requires, among other things, strengthening the Bank’s capital position through increased minimum capital requirements, and the review, and where appropriate, revisions to or adoption of (i) loan policies, procedures and reporting, (ii) credit administration and underwriting, (iii) asset classification, (iv) allowance for loan and lease losses and (v) internal asset review. See “Recent Developments – Regulatory Developments” included in Item 1. Business in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Failure to comply with the supervisory agreement could result in the initiation of a formal enforcement action by the OTS. As a bank holding company, our earnings are dependent upon the performance of the Bank and the Bank’s subsidiaries. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Various state and federal laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to a parent holding company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. The continuation of adverse market conditions in the United States economy and the markets in which we operate could continue to adversely impact us. The United States has experienced a prolonged weakening of economic conditions and declines in housing prices and real estate values in general. A continued deterioration of overall market conditions, a continued economic downturn or prolonged economic stagnation in our markets or adverse changes in laws and regulations that impact the banking industry may have a negative impact on our business. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the economy in areas where we lend (or previously provided real estate financing) continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a further deterioration in credit quality or a continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and provision for loan losses. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where we operate (or areas we formerly operated) could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and the value of the underlying collateral. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for the past 12-18 months. These levels of volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, the markets have produced significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of volatility and market disruption persist, or continue to worsen, there can 39 be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our financial condition or results of operations. Current market conditions may continue to adversely affect our industry, business, financial conditions and results of operations. Significant declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example: · Market developments have, and may continue to, affect borrower confidence levels, behaviors and financial condition, which could impact their borrowing and payment activities, and our ability to assess creditworthiness which could impact lending activities, charge-offs and provision for loan losses. · Estimates of inherent losses in the loan portfolio rely on complex judgments. The current state of the economy and housing market makes the process of estimating inherent losses difficult and subject to significant volatility. · Increased regulation in the financial services industry could increase compliance costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Industry competition could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Concern of customers regarding deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about the financial services industry, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and results of operations. Our deposit insurance premium could significantly increase which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 16, 2008, the FDIC published a restoration plan designed to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund over a period of five years and to increase the deposit insurance reserve ratio, which decreased to 1.01% of insured deposits on June 30, 2008, to the statutory minimum of 1.15% of insured deposits by December 31, 2013. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposes to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. For the first quarter of 2009 only, the FDIC increased all FDIC deposit assessment rates by seven basis points. The new assessment rates range from 12-14 basis points for Risk Category I institutions to 50 basis points for Risk Category IV 40 institutions. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities (including FHLBank advances), lowering premiums for smaller institutions with high capital levels and adding financial ratios and debt issuers ratings to the premium calculations for banks with over $10 billion in assets, while providing a reduction for their unsecured debt. To supplement the DIF, the FDIC is also currently considering a special fee to be assessed to federally-insured financial institutions on September 30, 2009. An increase in the risk category of the Bank, adjustments to the base assessment rates or additional assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS as our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, which insures our deposits. As a member of the FHLBank, we must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLBank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. Our activities are also regulated under consumer protections laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan origination and purchase activity is highly concentrated in certain types of loans. At December 31, 2008, $1.6 billion, or 52.8%, of our total loans consisted of multi-family residential, commercial real estate, land and land development, commercial construction and business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of such loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2008, $229.5 million, or 7.8%, of our total loans consisted of residential construction loans. Our portfolio of residential construction loans increased dramatically in 2004, 2005 and 2006 as a result of our emphasis on loans with relatively higher yields, adjustable interest rates and/or shorter terms to maturity. Risk of loss on a residential construction loan is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value when completed compared to the projected cost (including interest) of construction and other assumptions, including the approximate time to sell the property. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral, these events could have a material adverse impact on the value of collateral, resulting in delinquencies and/or losses. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate may be negatively influenced by the economy in general, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Our concentration of loans in certain geographic areas of the United States may expose us to increased credit risk that may cause us to record additional provisions for loan losses and/or may result in future loan charge-offs. Nevada. At December 31, 2008, $171.5 million, or 6.2%, of our net loans were collateralized by properties in the state of Nevada, primarily in Las Vegas. Our loans in the Las Vegas area are primarily composed of land development, commercial construction and residential construction loans. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming land development, commercial construction and residential construction loans in the state of Nevada totaled $43.9 million, $15.0 million and $12.4 million, respectively. Additionally, loans 30-89 days delinquent in the state of Nevada totaled $17.3 million at December 31, 2008. Arizona. At December 31, 2008, $126.9 million, or 4.6%, of our net loans were collateralized by properties in the state of Arizona. Our loans in Arizona are primarily composed of land and land development loans, commercial construction loans, commercial real estate, residential construction loans and warehouse mortgage lines of credit. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming loans collateralized by properties in Arizona consisted of $7.8 million of residential construction loans and $3.2 million of land development loans. Loans 30-89 days delinquent in the state of Arizona totaled $480,000 at December 31, 2008. 41 Florida. At December 31, 2008, $69.6 million, or 2.5%, of our net loans were collateralized by properties in the state of Florida. Our loans in Florida are primarily composed of one-to-four family residential loans, residential construction loans and land development loans. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming residential construction, land development and one-to-four family residential loans in the state of Florida totaled $5.5 million, $4.1 million and $4.0 million, respectively. Loans 30-89 days delinquent in the state of Florida totaled $232,000 at December 31, 2008. South Carolina. At December 31, 2008, $59.6 million, or 2.1%, of our net loans were collateralized by properties in the state of South Carolina. Our loans in South Carolina primarily consist of residential construction loans. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming residential construction loans in South Carolina totaled $13.9 million. Loans 30-89 days delinquent in South Carolina totaled $4.7 million at December 31, 2008. North Carolina. At December 31, 2008, $55.7 million, or 2.0%, of our net loans were collateralized by properties in the state of North Carolina. Our loans in North Carolina primarily consist of residential construction and land development loans. At December 31, 2008, our nonperforming residential construction and land development loans in the state of North Carolina totaled $5.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Loans 30-89 days delinquent in North Carolina totaled $14.0 million at December 31, 2008. Further deterioration in the nation’s economic condition could materially affect geographic markets in which we have concentrations of loans and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Potential future loan losses may increase. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses within our existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. During 2007 and 2008, our levels of delinquent loans, nonperforming loans (loans 90 or more days delinquent), impaired loans and charge-offs increased significantly. These increases were primarily attributable to the continued deterioration in the real estate market and the economy in general. We have been further impacted by the erosion of property values and an overall increase in housing inventory (both developed lots and completed houses) in many of the areas of the country in which we do business and where the collateral for our loans resides. Additionally, significantly tightened credit standards have made it more difficult for potential borrowers to obtain financing and for current borrowers to refinance existing loans. If the recent trend is prolonged and losses continue to increase, our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. An inadequate allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure full repayment. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide for an allowance for loan losses which is based on our historical loan loss experience for each group of loans as further adjusted for specific factors. If our evaluation is incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance for loan losses. Increases in the allowance for loan losses result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are warranted, we may incur additional expenses. We can make no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. Our loans are primarily secured by real estate, including regional concentrations of loans in areas of the United States that are susceptible to tornados, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters. If a natural disaster were to occur in one of our major market areas, loan losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses. 42 Our results of operations are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, also known as the Federal Reserve Board, regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which impact our net interest margin, and can significantly affect the value of financial instruments such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Its policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict or anticipate. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We have provided for current and deferred income taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, and interpretations of tax statutes. We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge by federal and state taxing authorities. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. If the interest payments on our interest-bearing liabilities increase relative to the interest we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, however, changes in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Prevailing interest rates may significantly affect the overall demand for loans and could also impact the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. Loan prepayments and refinancings, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, may increase in a declining interest rate environment. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government securities and agency obligations and corporate securities may also negatively impact net interest income in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayment, refinancing and security call activity may negatively impact the yield of our loan portfolio and investment and mortgage-backed security portfolios, as we would reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. Additionally, adjustable-rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount interest rates can increase or decrease at repricing dates. In a decreasing interest rate environment, our level of core deposits may decline if our depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investment products we are unwilling to offer. This may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent that alternative funding sources are utilized to fund our business activities. In an increasing interest rate environment, depositors tend to prefer higher-yielding time deposits which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties under our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal, remediation or other clean-up on the acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property or that costs could be recovered from any third party. Additionally, it may be difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates or competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in capital markets, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds primarily through deposits and borrowings. 43 Generally, deposits are a preferable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If deposit growth is inadequate to fund our operations we may have to rely on borrowings as a source of funds. Relying on borrowings as a primary funding source may have an adverse impact on our net interest margin. Competition could result in our loan portfolios and deposit base declining. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. Our market areas have a high density of financial institutions, some of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors. Competition within the banking, mortgage and finance industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Our competition for loans comes primarily from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, our loan and deposit growth may be inhibited which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain or replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified customer relationship managers. We depend on the services of existing management personnel to carry out our business and investment strategies. It is critical that we are able to attract and retain management and other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is significant in our geographical market areas. The loss of services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers. An interruption in these third-party systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan servicing and loan origination systems. We can make no assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. Any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services. We can make no assurances that we could negotiate terms that are favorable to us, or could obtain comparable services without the need to expend substantial resources. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate in response to a variety of factors including actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, changes in our stockholder dividend policy, recommendations of securities analysts and news media reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors that may influence our stock price include investor perception of the financial services industry; products or services offered by our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or analysts deem comparable to us; and changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic conditions and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause our stock price to decline regardless of our operating results. 44 If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide accurate and reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations would be adversely effected. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) that require remediation. Under PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting.. Any failure to maintain effective internal and disclosure controls, or to make necessary improvements in such controls in a timely manner, could harm operating results or cause us to fail in meeting our financial reporting obligations. Such a failure could have an impact on our ability to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 