Item 1a. Risk Factors This discussion provides insight into Management’s assessment of risks relating to our business and its expectations for 2010. Such expressions of expectations are not historical in nature and are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company include: · declines in the Company’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios which have resulted in the issuance of a going concern emphasis of a matter paragraph in the audit report issued by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm; · operating restrictions placed on the Company and the Bank by its regulators; · continued deterioration in real estate markets and in general economic conditions, internationally, nationally and in the State of California; · increased loan delinquencies, foreclosures, and customer bankruptcies due to the decline in the value of real estate collateral securing such loans and the high unemployment rate; · changes in the interest rate environment which have reduced interest margins and increased interest rate risk; · the availability of sources of liquidity at a reasonable cost; · increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; · legislative or regulatory changes adversely affecting the business in which the Company engages; · technology implementation problems, computer system failures or security breaches; and · raising additional capital that could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of the Company’s common stock. Going Concern Risk. The Company and its subsidiary Bank have been significantly and adversely impacted by the continued decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and, more specifically, Northern California. The Bank faces unprecedented challenges with the increasing level of nonperforming loans and related foreclosed real estate, both of which are severely impacted by the steep declines in the underlying value of real estate collateral which has resulted in greater provisions for loan losses and write downs of other real estate values. Shareholders’ equity of the Company has decreased from $40.1 million at December 31, 2008 to $16.0 million at December 31, 2009. As a result, the Company and the Bank are considered to be “undercapitalized” for bank regulatory purposes as of December 31, 2009. These conditions create a substantial doubt about the Company’s and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2009 includes an audit report by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm containing an emphasis of a matter paragraph related to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s agreement with the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (“FRB”). We entered into an agreement (“FRB Agreement”) with the FRB where we agreed to certain covenants and conditions that require us, among other things: · to not receive dividends or distributions that represent a reduction of capital from the Bank, without the prior approval of the FRB; · to not declare or pay dividends or distributions without the prior approval of the FRB; · to not incur any new debt, increase or renew any existing debt, or guarantee any debt, without the prior approval of the FRB; · to not issue any trust preferred securities without the prior approval of the FRB; and · to not purchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire any of our stock without the prior approval of the FRB. The Bank is subject to certain operating restrictions. The Bank agreed to certain covenants and conditions in the informal joint Memorandum of Understanding effective April 21, 2009 between the Bank and its primary regulators, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and California Department of Financial Institutions (DFI) that restrict the operations of the Bank, including retaining qualified management, improving asset quality by reducing classified assets by collection or charge-off, maintaining an adequate loan loss allowance, reducing the aggregate amount of credit outstanding for borrowers of non-owner occupied commercial real estate and construction land development loans, improving the Bank’s overall risk profile, increasing the Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio to equal or exceed 10% and not paying cash dividends without the prior written consent of the FDIC and DFI. Management of the Bank expects to fully comply with such operating restrictions, to include the raising of additional capital discussed at Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. However, there are no assurances that the actions by management of the Bank and the Company to comply with such restrictions will be fully compliant. 20 Table of Contents As a result of a regularly scheduled and recently concluded joint FDIC and DFI examination, management expects to receive a formal order (“Order”) from the FDIC and the DFI which will replace the informal Memorandum of Understanding discussed above. The Order is expected to include provisions to further strengthen and improve asset quality, enhance problem loan identification policies and procedures including identification of impaired loans and troubled debt restructured loans, reduce the level of classified assets, maintain certain capital ratios and request regulatory approval prior to paying any cash dividends. At this time, management does not know what impact the Order will have on the Company’s business strategies. Furthermore as the Bank is considered “undercapitalized” for bank regulatory purposes under the Prompt Corrective Action regulations, it will be required to file a capital restoration plan and is automatically subject to among other things, restrictions on dividends, restrictions on access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window, restrictions on asset growth, and being prohibited from opening new branches, making acquisitions or engaging in new lines of business without the approval of the FDIC. Continued deterioration of real estate markets could result in further losses for the Company as nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 58% of the loans of the Bank were secured by real estate. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment, if it occurs, would likely have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s earnings and the overall financial condition of the Company. Furthermore, the ability of the Bank to originate loans secured by real estate may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate market, increasing interest rates or by acts of nature, including earthquakes and flooding. Due to our concentration of real estate collateral, these events could have a material adverse impact on the value of the collateral underlying loans resulting in losses. Such resulting losses might materially adversely affect our financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our nonperforming loans were 11.8% of total loans, and at December 31, 2009, our nonperforming assets (which includes foreclosed real estate) were 12% of total assets. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur losses relating to nonperforming assets. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. When we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets or that the disposition of such non-performing assets will not adversely affect our profitability. Continued deterioration of economic conditions could hurt the financial condition of the Company and the Bank. The banking business is affected by general economic and political conditions, both domestic and international. The weakened general economic conditions have adversely affected the profitability of the Company and the Bank. Most of the Bank’s assets and deposits are generated in California. As a result, poor economic conditions in California have caused the Bank to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in its loan portfolio. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the impact of the decline in real estate values, higher unemployment, inflation in energy costs and consumer prices, and the fiscal crisis of the state of California. If economic conditions in California continue to decline, the Bank expects that its level of problem assets could increase accordingly. The operations of the Company are primarily located in Northern California. As a result of this geographical concentration, the Company’s results depend largely upon the economic conditions in Northern California. Adverse economic conditions in Northern California may have a material adverse affect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. A further deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally could result in a further economic downturn in Northern California with the following consequences, any of which could further adversely affect our business: · loan delinquencies and defaults may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; · low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; · collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans; · foreclosed assets may not be able to be sold; · volatile securities market conditions could adversely affect valuations of investment portfolio assets; and · reputational risk may increase due to public sentiment regarding the banking industry. 21 Table of Contents Tight credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued tight credit markets and/or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could adversely affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we also rely on nonbrokered time certificates of deposits. Our ability to obtain additional sources is impaired by the deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such a disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be adversely affected both as to price and availability, which would limit or potentially raise the cost of the funds available to us. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. As of December 31, 2009, our commercial real estate loans amounted to $228.7 million, or 52.79% of our total loan portfolio, and our commercial business loans amounted to $80.8 million, or 18.64% of our total loan portfolio. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally are considered riskier than single-family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans involve risks because the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans. Most of the Bank’s commercial real estate and commercial business loans are made to small business or middle market customers who may have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in net interest income and net interest margin. Net interest income is the difference or spread between the interest and fees earned on loans and investments (the Company’s earning assets) and the interest expense paid on deposits and other liabilities. Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets. It is used to measure the difference between the average rate of interest earned on assets and the average rate of interest that must be paid on liabilities used to fund those assets. To maintain its net interest margin, the Company must manage the relationship between interest earned and paid. A shift in the relative size of these major balance sheet categories has an impact on net interest income and net interest margin. To the extent that funds invested in securities can be repositioned into loans, earnings increase because of the higher rates paid on loans. However, additional credit risk is incurred with loans compared to the very low risk of loss on securities, and the Company must carefully monitor the underwriting process to ensure that the benefit of the additional interest earned is not offset by additional credit losses. In general, depositors are willing to accept a lower rate on their funds than are other providers of funds because of FDIC insurance coverage. To the extent that the Company can fund asset growth by deposits, especially the lower cost transaction accounts, rather than borrowing funds from other financial institutions, the average rates paid on funds will be less, and net interest income more. Although the Company expects to continue to realize income from its net interest margin spread, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect the ability of borrowers with variable rate loans to pay the interest on, and principal of, their obligations. The Company cannot control these factors. The changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. The Company faces intense competition from larger, more established institutions. The banking business in California is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services and has become increasingly so in recent years. With respect to commercial bank competitors, major banks dominate the industry. Most such banks offer certain services which the Bank is not equipped to offer directly (but some of which the Bank offers indirectly through correspondent institutions) and, by virtue of their greater total capitalization, such banks also have substantially higher lending limits than the Bank has. In addition to commercial banks, the Bank competes with savings institutions, credit unions, and numerous nonbanking companies that offer money market and mutual funds, wholesale finance, credit card, and other consumer finance services, including on-line banking services and personal finance software. Mergers between financial institutions, federal and state interstate banking laws, and technological innovation have also resulted in increased competition in the financial services markets. No assurance can be given that the Bank’s efforts to compete with these other financial institutions will be successful. The Company is dependent on management. The success of the Company is dependent on the services and prospective customer relationships of its key officers. The loss of any key officer for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the Company. There is also no guaranty that the Company would be able to replace such individuals with persons of comparable skills or with comparable customer relationships. The Company also may not be able to attract and retain additional key personnel with the skills and expertise necessary to achieve and manage its operations. 22 Table of Contents Governmental supervision of banking, monetary policies and intervention to stabilize the U.S. financial system may affect our business and are beyond our control. Banks are subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control by regulatory agencies and entities, which have materially affected the business of financial institutions. In recent years the regulations applicable to banks have changed dramatically, have substantially affected the banking business and increased the cost of doing business. The primary objective of these agencies and entities is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies and entities have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if the restrictions limit the ability of the banking institution to expand its business and introduce new financial products and services. Such regulatory restrictions are likely to reduce the amount of investment risk and resulting potential financial gains that banks may assume. Recent legislation including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), signed into law by President Bush on October 3, 2008, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009, each include programs that are intended to help stabilize the U.S. financial system. However, it is uncertain whether such legislation will sufficiently resolve the volatility of capital and credit markets or improve capital and liquidity problems confronting the financial system. The failure of the EESA or ARRA to mitigate or eliminate such volatility and problems affecting the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could limit our access to capital or sources of liquidity in amounts and at times necessary to conduct operations in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Recent regulations issued by the FDIC to limit the interest rate that may be paid on deposits and the type of deposits that may be taken by insured depository institutions that are less than “well capitalized”, including the Bank, may result in lower total deposits at the Bank that may require the Bank to sell assets to compensate for lower total deposits. The sale of assets at less than cost by the Bank to compensate for lower deposits may result in losses for the Bank. In addition, the inability to bring in deposits will restrict the future growth of the Bank. The Company will be required to raise additional capital to provide the necessary capital to the Bank to allow it to be “well capitalized” and be exempt from such interest rate limitations. Technology implementation problems or computer system failures could adversely affect us. Our future growth prospects will be highly dependent on the ability of the Bank to implement changes in technology that affect the delivery of banking services such as the increased demand for computer access to bank accounts and the availability to perform banking transactions electronically. The Bank’s ability to compete will depend upon its ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet such demands. In addition, the Company’s business and operations and those of the Bank could be susceptible to adverse effects from computer failures, communication and energy disruption, and activities such as fraud of unethical individuals with the technological ability to cause disruptions or failures of the Bank’s data processing system. Information security breaches or other technological difficulties could adversely affect us. We cannot be certain that the continued implementation of safeguards will eliminate the risk of vulnerability to technological difficulties or failures or ensure the absence of a breach of information security. The Bank will continue to rely on the services of various vendors who provide data processing and communication services to the banking industry. Nonetheless, if information security is compromised or other technology difficulties or failures occur at the Bank or with one of our vendors, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Bank could be exposed to claims from its customers as a result. Our controls over financial reporting and related governance procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. We maintain controls and procedures to mitigate risks such as processing system failures or errors and customer or employee fraud, and we maintain insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by our internal controls, are not insured against, or are in excess of our insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have an adverse effect on our business. The effects of legislation in response to current credit conditions may adversely affect us. Legislation that has or may be passed at the federal level and/or by the State of California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause us to experience higher credit losses if such legislation reduces the amount that the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan and lease losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. The effects of changes to FDIC insurance coverage limits are uncertain and increased premiums adversely affect us. EESA included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000. In addition, the FDIC recently adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. Further potential increases in FDIC insurance premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on us. On September 30, 23 Table of Contents 2009 the Bank paid a special FDIC insurance assessment of $267,513. The FDIC also adopted a rule requiring all insured depository institutions including the Bank to prepay three years of FDIC assessments in the fourth quarter of 2009. The amount of this prepaid assessment was $3,879,000 which is to be charged against income over a three year period. While the prepaid assessments are not charged to income for 2009, but rather will be expensed based on the Bank’s quarterly assessments under the new risk-based assessment system, the amount paid in December will reduce the cash and liquidity of the Bank at year end 2009. Due to the significant losses at failed banks and expected losses for banks that will fail, it is likely that FDIC insurance fund assessments on the Bank will increase, and such assessments may materially adversely affect the profitability of the Bank. We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We are evaluating opportunities to access the capital markets taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations. Such actions could include, among other things, the issuance of additional shares of common stock in public or private transactions in order to further increase our capital levels above the requirements for a well-capitalized institution established by the Federal banking regulatory agencies as well as other regulatory targets. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities including, without limitation, securities issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We are unable to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future due to dividend restrictions on common stock under the Regulatory Agreement and FRB Agreement. Under the FRB Agreement, we may not pay any dividends on common stock without the prior permission of the FRB for the duration of such agreement. It is expected that prior permission of the FRB will not be allowed until the financial condition of The Company and the Bank improves significantly. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments No comments have been submitted to the registrant by the staff of the Securities Exchange Commission. 