Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will complete our proposed Merger with CapitalSource. The Merger Agreement provides that either the Company or CapitalSource (each acting through its respective Board of Directors) has the right at any time after February 17, 2008 to unilaterally terminate the Merger Agreement, unless the failure to effect the Merger by such date was due to the terminating party’s failure to perform its obligations and covenants under the Merger Agreement. The Company has indicated that its present intent is not to terminate the Merger Agreement pending receipt of further comment from the OTS. Conversely, CapitalSource has publicly advised that its Board of Directors has authorized its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to either terminate the Merger Agreement or negotiate new terms for the transaction. In light of the preceding sentence, the Company can provide no assurance that the Merger will be completed even if all conditions precedent to the transaction (including receipt of regulatory approval) are satisfied. CapitalSource and the Company must obtain regulatory approvals to complete the Merger, which, if delayed, not granted, or granted with unacceptable conditions, may jeopardize or postpone the completion of the Merger, result in additional expenditures of money and resources or reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger. CapitalSource and the Company must obtain certain approval in a timely manner from the OTS prior to completion of the Merger. If CapitalSource and the Company do not receive the OTS’s approval, or do not receive it on terms that satisfy the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, then neither party will be obligated, or in some cases permitted, to complete the Merger. The OTS has broad discretion in administering the governing statutes and regulations. As a condition to approval of the Merger, the OTS may impose requirements, limitations or costs that could negatively affect the way the combined companies conduct business. These requirements, limitations or costs could jeopardize or delay the completion of the Merger. Companies holding more than 10% of the outstanding shares of CapitalSource common stock may affect or delay the approval of the Merger by the OTS. If these holders do not become savings and loan holding companies, or the OTS does not accept a rebuttal of control from them, regulatory approval of the Merger would not be obtainable, and the Merger could not be completed. Under the OTS’s regulations, companies holding more than 10% of CapitalSource’s outstanding common stock may be presumed to control CapitalSource, subject to the opportunity to rebut this presumption by obtaining the OTS’s acceptance of a rebuttal submission. If a company holding 10% or more of CapitalSource’s outstanding common stock does not rebut the presumption of control, or reduce its holdings to less than 10% of CapitalSource’s outstanding common stock, it would be required to obtain the approval of the OTS to become a savings and loan holding company prior to completion of the Merger. Some or all of CapitalSource’s 10% or greater stockholders may not be willing to become a savings and loan holding company. As a result, if the OTS does not accept a rebuttal of control from them, then regulatory approval of the Merger would not be obtainable, and the Merger could not be completed. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and future business and operations. If the Merger is not completed, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • the price of our common stock may decline if the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; and • our costs related to the Merger, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisor fees, generally must be paid even if the Merger is not completed. 38 In addition, our customers and suppliers may, in response to the announcement of the Merger, delay or defer decisions concerning us. Any delay or deferral in those decisions by our customers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether or not the Merger is ultimately completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with CapitalSource until CapitalSource’s strategies with regard to us are announced or executed. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Further, if the Merger is terminated and our Board of Directors decides to pursue another merger or business combination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a partner willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than CapitalSource would have paid in the Merger. Because the market price of CapitalSource common stock will fluctuate, our stockholders cannot be sure of the value of the merger consideration they will receive if the Merger is effected. If the Merger is completed, the holders of each share of Company common stock owned prior to the closing of the Merger will be entitled to receive for each such share: • $6.80 in cash; plus • 0.675 shares of CapitalSource common stock; plus • If the ten-day average closing price of CapitalSource common stock prior to the closing of the Merger is: a) less than or equal to $25.1852, then 0.405 shares of CapitalSource common stock; or b) greater than $25.1852, then TierOne Corporation stockholders can elect to receive either $10.20 in cash or $10.20 of CapitalSource common stock. Under the Merger Agreement, the stated maximum amount of CapitalSource stock that a Company stockholder may receive is 1.08 shares. To the extent the merger consideration is paid in CapitalSource shares, any change in the market price of CapitalSource common stock prior to completion of the Merger will affect the value of the merger consideration that our stockholders will receive upon completion of the Merger. Because of this market risk, prior to the election deadline, our stockholders will not know or be able to calculate the number or the value of the shares of CapitalSource common stock they will receive upon completion of the Merger. Accordingly, the specific dollar value of CapitalSource common stock a stockholder will receive will depend on the market value of CapitalSource common stock at the time the Merger is completed and may decrease from the date the stockholder makes an election as to the third component of the merger consideration. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in the Company’s or CapitalSource’s respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In the event the Merger is completed, CapitalSource and the Company may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. We entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Merger will result in significant benefits for both companies. Achieving the benefits of the Merger will depend in part on integrating the operations and personnel of the two companies in a timely and efficient manner to minimize the risk that the Merger will result in the loss of customers or key employees or the diversion of management’s attention from other important issues. This integration may or may not be successful. Assuming that the Merger is effected, we cannot offer any assurances that we and CapitalSource can successfully integrate or realize any of the anticipated benefits. Applicable regulations affecting savings and loan holding companies could negatively impact both CapitalSource’s commercial lending and investing business and the business of the Bank following the Merger. Currently, CapitalSource is not regulated as a savings and loan holding company or bank holding company and does not control any FDIC-insured depository institution. Savings banks such as the Bank are subject to extensive regulation of their activities and investments, their capitalization, their risk management policies and procedures, and their relationships with affiliated companies. Upon acquiring control of the Bank and becoming a savings and loan holding company assuming that the Merger is effected, CapitalSource’s operations would be limited to financial and certain real estate-related activities. These limitations may require CapitalSource to curtail or divest some of its current commercial lending and investment business activities. For instance, in connection with its loans used by financial sponsors to finance purchases of companies, CapitalSource commonly is granted the opportunity to acquire equity in a borrower at the same time and on substantially the same terms as the financial sponsor. Some of these equity investments exceed 5% of the borrower’s equity. If CapitalSource does not acquire merchant banking authority that will enable it to conform these equity investments of more than 5% in non-financial entities to the requirements of the Home Owners’ Loan Act within two years of the acquisition of the Company, it will be required to divest them. 39 In addition, as a condition to approving the Merger, the OTS may impose restrictions on the integration of the Bank’s banking and CapitalSource’s commercial lending and investing businesses, and may require prior approval of any future material changes to the Bank’s business plans. These regulations and conditions could constrain CapitalSource in pursuing future business opportunities following the Merger. These regulations and conditions, and CapitalSource’s inexperience with them, could also affect CapitalSource’s ability to realize synergies from the Merger, and could negatively affect both CapitalSource and the Bank following the Merger. The value of the CapitalSource common stock our stockholders receive in the Merger may fluctuate after the Merger. Neither CapitalSource nor the Company can predict how the CapitalSource common stock will trade subsequent to the closing of the Merger if the Merger is completed. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in CapitalSource’s businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond CapitalSource’s control. The market price of CapitalSource common stock may decline as a result of the Merger if: • the integration of CapitalSource and the Company is unsuccessful; • CapitalSource and the Company do not achieve the perceived benefits of the Merger as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the Merger on the combined company’s financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger. The Merger Agreement, so long as it is in effect, contains terms and conditions that make it more difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than CapitalSource. These “no shop” provisions impose restrictions on us that, subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to discuss or facilitate competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of our company. As a bank holding company, our earnings are dependent upon the performance of the Bank and the Bank’s subsidiaries. Since we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank, we currently depend upon dividends from the Bank for a substantial portion of our revenues. These dividends are the primary funding source for the dividends we pay on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends will continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. Various state and federal laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to a parent holding company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. If economic conditions decline further, our financial condition and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, governmental policies of the communities in which we do business and actions of regulatory authorities. A further decline in the local or national economy could continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: 40 • A decline in the demand for the products and services we offer; • An increase in nonperforming loans and loan charge-offs; • An increase in provisions for loan losses; • An increase in losses on real estate owned (acquired through foreclosure); and • A migration from low-yielding or noninterest bearing deposits to higher-yielding deposit products such as time deposits. Our loan origination and purchase activity is highly concentrated in certain types of loans. At December 31, 2007, $1.7 billion, or 52.2%, of our total loans consisted of multi-family residential, commercial real estate, land and land development, commercial construction and business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of such loans is dependent upon the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, these types of loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Bank’s commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2007, $513.6 million, or 15.4%, of our total loans consisted of residential construction loans. Our portfolio of residential construction loans increased dramatically in 2004, 2005 and 2006 as a result of our emphasis on loans with relatively higher yields, adjustable interest rates and/or shorter terms to maturity. Risk of loss on a residential construction loan is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value when completed compared to the projected cost (including interest) of construction and other assumptions, including the approximate time to sell the property. Our ability to continue to originate and/or purchase residential construction loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in the real estate markets, or by acts of nature. Due to the concentration of real estate collateral, these events could have a material adverse impact on the value of collateral, resulting in delinquencies and/or losses. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced by a weaker economy, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Our concentration of loans in certain areas of Florida and the Las Vegas, Nevada area may expose us to increased credit risk that may cause us to record additional provisions for loan losses and/or may result in future loan charge-offs. At December 31, 2007, $168.8 million, or 5.1%, of our total loans were collateralized by properties in the state of Florida. Among our Florida loans, $31.8 million were considered nonperforming residential construction loans at December 31, 2007. Approximately $26.5 million of our total nonperforming residential construction loans in Florida were purchased from TransLand. During the three months ended December 31, 2007 we charged off $25.5 million of TransLand residential construction loans, due in large part to a permanent decline in the estimated fair value of residential lots. At December 31, 2007, $247.3 million, or 7.4%, of our total loans were collateralized by properties in the state of Nevada, primarily in the Las Vegas, Nevada area. Our loans in the Las Vegas, Nevada area are primarily composed of land development, commercial construction and residential construction loans. At December 31, 2007, our nonperforming land development, commercial construction and residential construction loans in the Las Vegas, Nevada area totaled $30.4 million, $19.2 million and $7.6 million, respectively. Our results of operations are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, also known as the Federal Reserve Board, regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which impact our net interest margin, and can significantly affect the value of financial instruments such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights. Its policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict or anticipate. 41 The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We have provided for current and deferred income taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, and interpretations of tax statutes. We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that may be subject to challenge by federal and state taxing authorities. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state or local authority assessed charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. If the interest payments on our interest-bearing liabilities increase relative to the interest we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, however, changes in market interest rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Prevailing interest rates may significantly affect the overall demand for loans and could also impact the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. Loan prepayments and refinancings, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, may increase in a declining interest rate environment. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government securities and agency obligations and corporate securities may also negatively impact net interest income in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayment, refinancing and security call activity may negatively impact the yield of our loan portfolio and investment and mortgage-backed security portfolios, as we would reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. Additionally, adjustable-rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount interest rates can increase or decrease at repricing dates. In a decreasing interest rate environment, our level of core deposits may decline if our depositors seek higher-yielding instruments or other investment products we are unwilling to offer. This may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent that alternative funding sources are utilized to fund our business activities. In an increasing interest rate environment, depositors tend to prefer higher-yielding time deposits which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Potential future loan losses may increase. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses within our existing loan portfolio. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. Over the past several years, historical loan losses had been low and our loan loss ratios had performed better than industry averages. During 2007, our levels of delinquent loans, nonperforming loans (loans 90 or more days delinquent), impaired loans and charge-offs increased significantly. These increases were primarily attributable to the continued deterioration in the real estate market and the economy in general. We have been further impacted by the erosion of property values and an overall increase in housing inventory (both developed lots and completed houses) in many of the areas of the country in which we do business and where the collateral for our loans reside. Additionally, significantly tightened credit standards have made it more difficult for potential borrowers to obtain financing and for current borrowers to refinance existing loans. Loan losses related to residential construction loans increased during the year ended December 31, 2007. If the recent trend is prolonged and losses continue to increase, our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. An inadequate allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure full repayment. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide for an allowance for loan losses which is based on our historical loan loss experience for each group of loans as further adjusted for specific factors. 42 If our evaluation is incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance for loan losses. Increases in the allowance for loan losses result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are warranted, we may incur additional expenses. We can make no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. Our loans are primarily secured by real estate, including regional concentrations of loans in areas of the United States that are susceptible to tornados, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters. If a natural disaster were to occur in one of our major market areas, loan losses could occur that are not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties acquired through foreclosure. If we are forced to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan to recover our investment, we may be subject to environmental liabilities related to the underlying real property. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on properties under our ownership or after a sale to a third party. The amount of environmental liability could exceed the value of the real property. There can be no assurance that we would not be fully liable for the entire cost of any removal, remediation or other clean-up on the acquired property, that the cost of removal and clean-up would not exceed the value of the property or that costs could be recovered from any third party. Additionally, it may be difficult or impossible to sell the property prior to or following any environmental remediation. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates or competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase because of general economic conditions, unfavorable conditions in capital markets, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds primarily through deposits and borrowings. Generally, deposits are a preferable source of funds than borrowings because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. If deposit growth is inadequate to fund our operations we may have to rely on borrowings as a source of funds. Relying on borrowings as a primary funding source may have an adverse impact on our net interest margin. Competition could result in our loan portfolios and deposit base declining. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, some of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors. Competition within the banking, mortgage and finance industries may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Our competition for loans comes primarily from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, our loan and deposit growth may be inhibited which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS as our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, which insures our deposits. As a member of the FHLBank, we must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLBank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. Our activities are also regulated under consumer protections laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 43 We may not be able to retain or replace key members of management or attract and retain qualified customer relationship managers. We depend on the services of existing management personnel to carry out our business and investment strategies. It is critical that we are able to attract and retain management and other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is significant in our geographical market areas. The loss of services of any management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers. An interruption in these third-party systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan servicing and loan origination systems. We can make no assurances that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. Any failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services. We can make no assurances that we could negotiate terms that are favorable to us, or could obtain comparable services without the need to expend substantial resources. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including issues related to the consummation of the Merger with CapitalSource and the CapitalSource stock price; actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; changes in our stockholder dividend policy; recommendations of securities analysts; and news media reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. Other factors that may influence our stock price include products or services offered by our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or analysts deem comparable to us; and changes in governmental regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic conditions and political conditions and events, such as future terrorist activities, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, also could cause our stock price to decline regardless of our operating results. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal and disclosure control, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we were unable to provide accurate and reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and results of operations would be adversely effected. As part of our ongoing monitoring of internal controls, we may discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls as defined under standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) that require remediation. Under PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the company’s financial reporting. 44 Any failure to maintain effective internal and disclosure controls, or to make necessary improvements in such controls in a timely manner, could harm operating results or cause us to fail in meeting our financial reporting obligations. Such a failure could have an impact on our ability to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 