Item 1a. Risk Factors This discussion and analysis provides insight into Management’s assessment of the operating trends over the last several years and its expectations for 2007. Such expressions of expectations are not historical in nature and are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Such risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company include: · increased competitive pressure among financial services companies; · changes in the interest rate environment reducing interest margins or increasing interest rate risk; · deterioration in general economic conditions, internationally, nationally or in the State of California; · the occurrence of future events such as the terrorist acts of September 11, 2001; · the availability of sources of liquidity at a reasonable cost; and · legislative or regulatory changes adversely affecting the business in which the Company engages. 15 Competition The Company faces competition from other financial institutions and from businesses in other industries that have developed financial products. Banks once had an almost exclusive franchise for deposit products and provided the majority of business financing. With deregulation in the 1980’s, other kinds of financial institutions began to offer competing products. Also, increased competition in consumer financial products has come from companies not typically associated with the banking and financial services industry, such as AT &T, General Motors and various software developers. Similar competition is faced for commercial financial products from insurance companies and investment bankers. Community banks, including the Company, attempt to offset this trend by developing new products that capitalize on the service quality that a local institution can offer. Among these are new loan, deposit, and investment products. The Company’s primary competitors are different for each specific product and market area. While this offers special challenges for the marketing of our products, it offers protection from one competitor dominating the Company in its market areas. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services than we do, which creates certain competitive disadvantages for the Company. Economic Conditions Beginning in the summer of 2004 the Fed began raising its target rate and by year end it had increased by 1.25% to 5.25%. Throughout 2005 the Fed continued to increase its target rate and by year end it reached 7.25%. During 2006 the target rate was increased 25 basis points four times ending on June 29, 2006 at 8.25% where it remained through the end of the year. These changes impacted the Company as market rates for loans, investments and deposits respond to the Fed’s actions. The most significant economic factors impacting the Company in the last three years have been the healthy economic expansion during 2004 and 2005 and the gradual real estate slow down in 2006. A significant portion of our total loan portfolio is related to real estate obligations, particularly residential real estate loans. Our local economies continue to grow and prosper but we are experiencing stabilization in the rapid pace of people moving into our service areas. The smaller towns in close proximity to Chico such as Orland and Oroville are continuing to grow due to the lower cost of land acquisition for new housing. The areas around Redding such as Cottonwood and Anderson are also experiencing modest growth. Risk Management The Company sees the process of addressing the potential impacts of the external factors listed above as part of its management of risk. In addition to common business risks such as disasters, theft, and loss of market share, the Company is subject to special types of risk due to the nature of its business. New and sophisticated financial products are continually appearing with different types of risk which need to be defined and managed if the Company chooses to offer them to its customers. Also, the risks associated with existing products must be reassessed periodically. The Company cannot operate risk-free and make a profit. Instead, the process of risk definition and assessment allows the Company to select the appropriate level of risk for the anticipated level of reward and then decide on the steps necessary to manage this risk. The Company’s Risk Officer and the other members of its Senior Management Team under the direction and oversight of the Board of Directors lead the risk management process. Some of the risks faced by the Company are those faced by most enterprises — reputational risk, operational risk, and legal risk. The special risks related to financial products are credit risk and interest rate risk. Credit risk relates to the possibility that a debtor will not repay according to the terms of the debt contract. Credit risk is discussed in the sections related to loans. Interest rate risk is discussed in the sections related to Liquidity and Market Risk Management and relates to the adverse impacts of changes in interest rates. The effective management of these and other risks mentioned above is the backbone of the Company’s business strategy. Managing Our Growth Our Company’s total assets increased from $495 million at December 31, 2005 to $550 million at December 31, 2006. Management’s intention is to leverage the Company’s current infrastructure to sustain the momentum achieved in 2006, although no assurance can be provided that this strategy will result in significant growth. Our ability to manage growth will depend primarily on our ability to: · monitor operations; · control funding costs and operating expenses; · maintain positive customer relations; and · attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel. The Impact of Changes in Assets and Liabilities to Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin The Company earns income from two sources. The primary source is from the management of its financial assets and liabilities and the second is from charging fees for services provided. The first source involves functioning as a financial intermediary, that is, the Company accepts funds from depositors or obtains funds from other creditors and then either lends the funds to borrowers or invests those funds in securities or other financial instruments. Income is earned as a spread between the interest earned from the loans or investments and the interest paid on the deposits and other borrowings. The second source, fee income, is discussed in other sections of this analysis, specifically in “Noninterest Revenue.” 16 Changes in Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin Net interest income is the difference or spread between the interest and fees earned on loans and investments (the Company’s earning assets) and the interest expense paid on deposits and other liabilities. The amount by which interest income will exceed interest expense depends on two factors: (1) the volume or balance of earning assets compared to the volume or balance of interest-bearing deposits and liabilities, and (2) the interest rate earned on those interest earning assets compared with the interest rate paid on those interest-bearing deposits and liabilities. Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets. It is used to measure the difference between the average rate of interest earned on assets and the average rate of interest that must be paid on liabilities used to fund those assets. To maintain its net interest margin, the Company must manage the relationship between interest earned and paid. A shift in the relative size of the major balance sheet categories has an impact on net interest income and net interest margin. To the extent that funds invested in securities can be repositioned into loans, earnings increase because of the higher rates paid on loans. However, additional credit risk is incurred with loans compared to the very low risk of loss on securities, and the Company must carefully monitor the underwriting process to ensure that the benefit of the additional interest earned is not offset by additional credit losses. In general, depositors are willing to accept a lower rate on their funds than are other providers of funds because of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance coverage. To the extent that the Company can fund asset growth by deposits, especially the lower cost transaction accounts, rather than borrowing funds from other financial institutions, the average rates paid on funds will be less, and net interest income more. The Allowance for Loan Losses May Not Cover Actual Loan Losses. We attempt to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans, nevertheless losses can and do occur. We create an allowance for loan losses in our accounting records, based on estimates of the following: · industry standards; · historical experience with our loans; · evaluation of qualitative factors such as loan concentrations and local economic conditions; · regular reviews of the quality, mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; · regular reviews of delinquencies; and · the quality of the collateral underlying our loans; · loan impairment. We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level which we believe is adequate to absorb any specifically identified losses as well as any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which are beyond our control, may cause our actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the amount reserved, it will hurt our business. In addition, the FDIC and the Department of Financial Institutions, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the California Department of Financial Institutions could also impact our business. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments No comments have been submitted to the registrant by the staff of the Securities Exchange Commission. 