Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations General economic conditions have continued to deteriorate and we are now in the midst of a global recession. These conditions likely will cause further deterioration in corporate balance sheets, ratings downgrades and additional business failures, resulting in continued disruptions in the financial markets. The global economy is experiencing a significant downturn in economic activity, which is putting significant stress on the banking system and public and private corporations worldwide. In response, G7 governments have implemented various programs seeking to stimulate their economies and to improve confidence in the financial and industrial sectors. These programs have included injecting capital directly into major banks, arranging mergers of weak banks and institutions with stronger entities and assisting in various business combinations between financial institutions. Additionally, governments have established programs to assist certain key industries, including the automobile industry among others. The U.S. Government has announced a stimulus program under which it will spend billions of dollars intending to stabilize the housing market and seeking to create new jobs within the economy. Other G7 governments are considering similar programs. It is difficult to predict whether these various stimulus programs and bank-related bailouts will have an ameliorative effect on the severe global economic downturn. We expect to continue to experience throughout 2009 high levels of equity and credit market volatility, dysfunctional capital markets with investors remaining reluctant to commit capital, and volatile currency, commodity and securities markets. These conditions will continue until the global economic situation stabilizes and the global economy starts to grow. This environment likely will cause further deterioration in corporate balance sheets, ratings downgrades and additional business failures. In 2009 and afterwards, should these conditions persist, Primus Financial may experience a higher level of credit events which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are experiencing unprecedented conditions in the global financial and credit markets which create a greater level of risk to our business and may materially adversely affect our loss experience, the demand for our services and our financial results. We continue to experience very difficult conditions in the global financial and credit markets. These conditions are characterized by greater volatility, less liquidity, wider credit spreads, a lack of price transparency and a flight to quality, among others. Initially, these conditions were triggered by deteriorating conditions in the U.S. subprime mortgage market, including higher than expected delinquencies. This has now spread beyond the U.S. subprime mortgage market to a broader market contagion impacting a number of financial markets, global financial institutions, corporations and certain ratings dependent investment vehicles. The deteriorating market environment has resulted in significant reductions in the market values of many asset classes and changes in the criteria applied by the ratings agencies in determining ratings for structured credit vehicles and operating companies, including CDPCs like Primus Financial. A number of financial institutions have been forced to raise large amounts of new capital at very expensive levels. Additionally, a number of financial institutions and insurance companies — including financial guaranty companies — have experienced ratings downgrades with a continued negative outlook. Credit market conditions over the course of 2008 have worsened. There were a number of business failures during 2008, including high profile credit events affecting the Government Sponsored Enterprises (Federal National Mortgage Association, also known as Fannie Mae, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, also known as Freddie Mac), certain major financial institutions and banks as well as corporations. Primus Financial’s counterparties, in reaction to this worsening credit environment and in response to their own capital issues, have significantly tightened criteria for acceptable counterparties. In almost every case, counterparties are now required to post collateral to transact in the credit swap market. Under Primus Financial’s operating guidelines and agreements with its counterparties, it does not and is not required to post collateral and it has not been able to write any meaningful new credit swap business since the first quarter of 2008. Credit spreads are expected to continue to remain wide and volatile, and we expect the current general lack of liquidity to continue. These disruptions in the financial markets, business failures and the lack of counterparty capacity have severely affected our business. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions may continue, but we expect credit market conditions to continue to be very volatile with wide credit spreads and potentially a higher level of credit events. We will continue to face a very challenging business environment and it is unlikely Primus Financial will be able to write any new meaningful credit swap business going forward. These conditions would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We face risks in Primus Financial’s credit protection business from its credit swaps sold on issuers in industries under severe stress, such as financial intermediaries, insurance companies, building/development, retailers, publishers and as well as brokers/dealers/investment houses. At December 31, 2008, 11.9% of Primus Financial’s single name credit swap portfolio in notional amounts referenced financial intermediaries; 10.1% referenced insurance companies, including financial guaranty companies; 4.7% referenced building/development; 3.6% referenced retailers (except food and drug); 2.4% referenced publishing and 2.2% referenced brokers/dealers/investment houses. In the aggregate, these Reference Entities represented 34.9% in notional amounts of Primus Financial’s total single name credit swap portfolio. As part of its portfolio of credit swaps referencing insurance companies, Primus Financial has sold protection on debt obligations of five financial guaranty companies in a total aggregate notional amount of approximately $502 million. In the current highly volatile credit market environment, a number of Reference Entities in the financial intermediary, broker/dealer and insurance company sectors are under significant balance sheet and ratings pressure and have had to raise large amounts of new capital to support their deteriorating condition. A number of global financial institutions have now received capital from their respective governments, which have become their major shareholders and investors. Some insurance companies and a number of the financial guarantors have sought regulatory relief as their balance sheets and capital ratios have deteriorated. Some of the financial guaranty companies have been restructured and others have completed commutations with their counterparties on various structured credit positions in their portfolios. Primus Financial’s portfolio has large exposure on credit swaps sold referencing the debt on a number of the global financial intermediaries, banks and insurance companies. With the consolidation that has and is occurring within the global banking system, exposures have become even larger and more concentrated. If the global financial sector continues to suffer from the credit crisis and further credit events occur, Primus Financial may sustain material losses. As a result of the economic downturn affecting consumers, the retail and real estate sectors have suffered significantly reduced sales, which is adversely affecting the financial results of companies in these sectors. Publishing also has been affected, as a number of old media companies are highly leveraged and having difficulty re-financing or extending their debt while at the same time losing advertising and readers. In 2009, there have been some bankruptcies of smaller newspaper publishers. Primus Financial selectively has sold protection on referenced companies in these sectors, although the contracts mature relatively soon and Primus Financial’s exposure to these sectors is not as concentrated as with financial intermediaries. Credit events with respect to these referenced companies could cause Primus Financial to suffer significant losses and would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to manage effectively the risk of credit losses would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that any of the loss mitigation methods which we may use in managing Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio will be effective. If, for example, multiple credit defaults or other defined credit events that exceed our expectations occur, the payments Primus Financial would be required to make under its related credit swaps could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even though we may identify a heightened risk of default with respect to a particular Reference Entity, our ability to limit Primus Financial’s losses, through hedging or terminating the credit swap, before a defined credit event actually occurs could be limited by conditions of inadequate liquidity in the credit swap market or conditions which render terminations or hedging economically impractical. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage higher risks of credit losses effectively or that any of our loss mitigation methods will be effective in any of these new areas. It is possible that the level of credit events that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. 20 Table of Contents Primus Financial’s counterparties are primarily global financial institutions and major credit swap dealers. Some of these institutions have been under significant stress which has impacted their balance sheets, capital ratios and ratings. A default by a major counterparty could have a material impact on Primus Financial and consequently on us. The financial condition of global financial institutions has weakened considerably during the crisis in the credit markets. These institutions have had to raise new capital at very expensive levels as their balance sheets have deteriorated, primarily as a result of the markdowns taken on certain of their assets and on certain off-balance sheet derivatives. When the capital markets shut down, many of these global banks turned to their respective governments for support, and, consequently, they now have governments as their major investors and shareholders. We expect the stress on global banks and financial institutions to continue for the foreseeable future. Additionally, we expect that there will be additional mergers as consolidation within the banking system continues. This reduces the number of counterparties for Primus Financial and could lead to further risk concentration within the counterparties that remain. The insolvency of a major bank or credit swap dealer would have a material adverse impact on Primus Financial as it is likely the insolvent counterparty would cease making premium payments on its credit swap agreements. Even in that situation, it may be difficult for Primus Financial to cancel its contracts with the counterparty, although it has taken the position that it would not make a payment if a claim arose from a credit event on a Reference Entity under a credit swap agreement with a defaulting counterparty. There is little legal precedent to rely on pertaining to the default of a credit swap counterparty. We are at risk to further deterioration in the credit markets and additional credit events in Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio as well as its single name credit swap portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, Primus Financial’s portfolio of single name credit swaps sold was $17.5 billion (in notional amount) and its portfolio of credit swap tranches sold was $5.0 billion (in notional amount). Tranches generally reference pools of credit swaps and have capital subordination levels that are meant to protect against making cash payments upon some number of credit events affecting the Reference Entities referenced in the tranche. Adverse rating migration on the Reference Entities within the tranche may also impact the rating of the tranche, which in turn may require additional capital to support Primus Financial’s own credit ratings. During 2008, Primus Financial experienced certain credit events and negative credit migration which resulted in a reduction in capital subordination levels of the tranches and a reduction of the tranches’ implied ratings. If Primus Financial experiences additional credit events on Reference Entities within its tranches, in which subordination levels have fallen to zero, it will be required to make a cash payment or multiple cash payments to its counterparty, potentially to the full notional amount of the tranche transaction. This would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the disruption in the credit markets and our inability to grow Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio, management has decided to change its strategy and there can be no assurance that our new business plans will be effective or profitable. In February 2009, we announced a change in our business strategy resulting from our assessment of the prospects for our credit protection business in its current form. During 2008, counterparties, primarily global financial institutions and major credit swap dealers, ceased to buy protection from Primus Financial after the first quarter of 2008. This was the result of a tightening of their criteria for acceptable counterparties and their insistence on the posting of collateral. Under Primus Financial’s operating guidelines and agreements with its counterparties, it does not and is not required to post collateral. In the latter part of 2008, Primus Financial experienced a number of credit events in its credit swap portfolio and recorded net realized losses of $157.9 million which, among other things, led to downgrades of its AAA/Aaa counterparty ratings. Early in 2009, we announced our “2009 Business Outlook and Priorities” which focused on three primary components: 1) amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio given its inability to grow that credit swap portfolio; 2) growing assets under management, and 3) establishing a new credit protection platform. 21 Table of Contents The successful execution of the amortization of the Primus Financial credit swap portfolio will be highly dependent on the level of credit losses in that portfolio over the next three to four years. Management expects the credit markets to be highly volatile over this time frame and that the global recession will cause corporate balance sheets to deteriorate, thereby increasing the potential for additional credit events. It is possible that the level of credit event losses that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. While Primus Financial intends to employ various risk mitigation techniques and it believes its current portfolio is of generally high quality, it is not possible to forecast the actual level of credit events that its credit swap portfolio will experience, and any actions taken seeking to mitigate risks may not ultimately succeed. Our plans to grow our asset management business have only had limited success to date. Growing our asset management business lines will generally require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our personnel to acquire or develop and integrate it with our operations which will place a strain on our employees, resources and systems. While we have capital to invest in our asset management business, it is limited and raising additional capital to further expand this business line may not be possible in the current economic environment and, if capital becomes available, it may involve terms that are expensive and unfavorable for us and our shareholders. Our ability to establish a new credit protection business to replace Primus Financial will be highly dependent on whether we can raise sufficient capital and establish counterparty capacity. In addition, the regulatory environment and rating agency approvals may affect our ability to establish a new credit protection business. It would be very difficult to raise capital for a new credit protection business in the current public or private markets. As a result, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in implementing our business plan and our failure to execute on this strategy could have a material impact on our financial results and performance. Some of these complications may include obtaining ratings agency approvals and required licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. There is no assurance that we will accurately anticipate resource requirements or that our strategy will be implemented effectively. The expansion of our asset management business may require working capital prior to receipt of asset management fees. Also, we may be expected to co-invest in vehicles we manage, possibly in a junior or first loss position, and the capital so invested may be exposed to the risk of significant losses if the vehicles perform poorly. Additionally, we currently are seeking a strategic partner to assist us in the execution of our new business plan with resources and capital. It is difficult to assess whether we will be able to find a suitable strategic partner and our ability to do so will impact the success or failure of our new strategy. Even if we are successful in the implementation of our new business plan, we cannot assure you that the revenue growth and profitability we achieve will be sufficient to offset the loss of revenues and profitability from the amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio or the credit events that portfolio could experience as it matures. We may have difficulty in servicing our outstanding debt and may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Currently, we have $109.7 million outstanding of 7% Senior Notes and Primus Financial has $300 million outstanding in the aggregate of its perpetual preferred securities and subordinated deferrable interest notes. The original issue amount of the 7% Senior Notes was $125 million, due in 2036. As a holding company, we rely on investment income from our portfolio of investments to service the interest on the 7% Senior Notes. If that investment income were to decline such that it was insufficient to pay interest on the 7% Senior Notes, we would have difficulty finding other sources of income to pay such interest and, as a result, have difficulty in servicing such debt. Primus Financial relies on its credit swap premiums and its investment income from its portfolio of investments to service the interest on its outstanding debt. If Primus Financial suffers significant credit events, it will be forced to liquidate significant portions of its investment portfolio in order to pay claims to its counterparties, thereby also reducing the source of its investment income utilized to service its outstanding debt. Defaults on interest payments by either us or Primus Financial would have a material adverse affect on our ability to raise additional capital in the future. 22 Table of Contents In addition, even if there were no interest or other defaults on our outstanding debt, in the current environment it would be very difficult for us or Primus Financial to raise additional capital should we or Primus Financial need to do so. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, would likely be on terms that are not favorable to us or our shareholders but nonetheless, we may have to accept those terms. Further deterioration in Primus Guaranty and Primus Financial’s ratings would make it extremely difficult to raise capital at an economically feasible cost. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to raise capital is highly dependent upon the conditions of the capital markets, among other things. The current credit market contagion has adversely impacted the capital markets and there is no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital in the immediate future. We depend on a limited number of key employees. If we are not able to retain key employees or attract new employees in the future, we may be unable to successfully implement our strategic plan or operate our business. The loss of any of our key personnel, including directors, executive officers or other key employees, many of whom have long-standing relationships with Primus Financial’s counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to employ key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have “key person” life insurance to cover our executive officers. We do not have employment contracts with all of our executive officers and key employees. Recent reductions in employee compensation levels and change in our business strategy, as well as the uncertainties associated with its implementation may lead to a higher level of employee departures, and our ability to attract new qualified employees in the future and retain our current employees may be limited. Variations in market credit swap premiums and correlation levels could cause our financial results to be volatile. Events causing market credit swap premium levels to widen or tighten or correlation levels to change significantly on underlying Reference Entities in Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio will affect the fair value of related credit swaps and may increase the volatility of our financial results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In accordance with GAAP, we are required to report credit swaps at fair value, with changes in fair value during periods recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated statements of operations. The principal determinant of the fair value of a credit swap is the prevailing market premium associated with the underlying Reference Entity at the time the valuation is derived. The valuation of Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio also incorporates assumptions relating to the correlation of defaults between Reference Entities. The fair value of credit swaps is also affected by our estimation of counterparties, and our own, ability to perform under the credit swap contracts. Generally, valuations for credit swaps in Primus Financial’s portfolio rely upon market pricing quotations from dealers and third-party pricing providers. We cannot provide assurance that there will be a broadly based and liquid market to provide reliable market quotations in the future, particularly in circumstances where there is abnormal volatility or lack of liquidity in the market. Factors that may cause market credit swap premiums and correlation assumptions to fluctuate include changes in national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, credit events within an industry, changes in a Reference Entity’s operating results, credit rating, cost of funds, management or any other factors leading investors to revise expectations about a Reference Entity’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations when due. Although management believes that its performance can be better assessed using a non-GAAP measure, the volatility in our reported GAAP results may cause our common share price to fluctuate significantly. Certain of our principal shareholders control us and the barriers to a change in control are very low. At December 31, 2008, our principal shareholders (by which we mean those institutions that owned shares prior to our initial public offering in October 2004), directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, owned approximately 53% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, collectively, are able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers, amalgamations or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. There is no assurance that the interests of our principal shareholders will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. On the other hand, at current price levels for our common shares, there is little protection against, and low barriers to, an outside party acquiring control of us in cooperation with one of our principal shareholders. Such actions may not be in the best interests of all shareholders. 23 Table of Contents The commercial and investment activities of some of our principal shareholders and directors may compete with our business. Certain of our principal shareholders or our directors, and their respective affiliates, engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in direct or indirect competition with us. Some of our principal shareholders and directors, or their affiliates, may in the future sponsor other entities engaged in the credit swap business or asset management business, some of which compete with us. Certain of our shareholders and directors, and their respective affiliates, also have entered into agreements with and made investments in numerous companies that may compete with us. Our shareholders and directors, and their respective affiliates, also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may also be suitable opportunities for our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our principal shareholders continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding common shares, they will continue to be able to influence strongly or effectively control our business decisions. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to pay cash dividends on our common shares. Currently, we do not pay cash dividends on our common shares and we cannot be assured that funds will be available in the future to pay dividends. We currently intend to retain all available funds for use in the operation of our business, although we also intend, where appropriate, to return capital no longer necessary or advisable for the operations of Primus Financial to shareholders. Additionally, we are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than our ownership of all of our subsidiaries. The majority of our capital is held at Primus Financial. There are certain restrictions on Primus Financial contained in its operating guidelines, which may affect its ability to pay dividends. Further, the payment of dividends and making of distributions by each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re is limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Any determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our operations may become subject to increased regulation under U.S. federal and state law or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences for us. There can be no assurance that new legal or administrative interpretations or regulations under the U.S. commodities and securities laws, or other applicable legislation on the federal or state levels, or in Bermuda, the United Kingdom, or other jurisdictions, will not result in administrative burdens, increased costs, or other adverse consequences for us. Periodically, proposals have been made and are pending in the U.S. Congress and elsewhere to enact legislation that would increase regulation of the credit swap market. We cannot predict what restrictions any such legislation, if adopted, would impose and the effect those restrictions would have on our business. In addition, federal statutes allocate responsibility for insurance regulation to the states and state insurance regulators may seek to assert jurisdiction over Primus Financial’s credit swaps. Again, we cannot predict what effect any such regulation would have on our business. 24 Table of Contents Credit swap buyers typically use credit swaps to manage risk and regulatory capital requirements that limit their credit exposure to a Reference Entity. Regulatory changes that modify the permissible limits of credit risk exposure, or affect the use of credit swaps to reduce risk, may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, it is likely that one or a number of credit swap clearinghouses will be established. It is difficult to forecast exactly what impact the establishment of this type of enterprise could have on our business strategy. If we or Primus Financial is required to register as an “investment company” under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, a variety of restrictions would be imposed, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance requirements that could limit our growth and increase our costs. There is no assurance that we could function effectively if either we or Primus Financial is required to register as an investment company. Our common shares may be de-listed from the NYSE. On November 7, 2008, we were notified by NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we were not in compliance with one of the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). We are considered “below criteria” established by the NYSE because our total market capitalization has been less than $75 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period and our last reported shareholders’ equity was less than $75 million. In accordance with NYSE procedures, we provided the NYSE with a business plan that outlines the definitive action we propose to take in order to bring us into compliance with the continued listing standards within 18 months of receipt of the notification. On November 14, 2008, we received a follow up letter from NYSE Regulation, Inc. informing us that we were “below criteria” for the average price of a security (less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30-trading day period). We must bring our share price and average share price back above $1.00 within six months following receipt of the notification. On February 26, 2009, the NYSE submitted to the SEC an immediate effective rule filing which suspends the NYSE $1.00 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. While we intend to cure this deficiency before this time in order to maintain our NYSE listing, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our listing with the NYSE. In addition, whether or not our new business plan is successfully implemented, we may determine that continued listing on the NYSE or any national securities exchange is no longer feasible or appropriate, and seek to de-list our common shares and reduce the information we are currently required to make publicly available as a means of reducing costs and expenses. Any involuntary or voluntary de-listing of our common shares would reduce their liquidity, thereby likely adversely affecting the market price of our common shares. We are exposed to significant credit market risk related to changes in foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Primus Financial transacted credit swaps denominated in both U.S. dollars and euros. Approximately 33% of Primus Financial’s outstanding total credit swap portfolio of $22.5 billion (in notional amount) at December 31, 2008 was denominated in euros. The notional principal of the credit swap is denominated in euros and the premiums are payable in euros, and therefore our credit exposure is affected by changes in the foreign exchange rate between euros and U.S. dollars. We translate euros into U.S. dollars at the current market foreign exchange rates for the purpose of recognizing credit swap premium income and the computation of fair values in our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the exchange rates between euros and U.S. dollars may have an adverse affect on the fair value of credit swaps, settlement of potential credit event losses and premium income in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. We do not hedge against foreign exchange rate risk. 25 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on information systems and third-party service providers. Our businesses are highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our business activities and our ongoing credit analysis and risk management assessments. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Taxation Our status as a PFIC may result in significant additional tax costs for shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers. Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda are likely to be and remain passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There are potentially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC for a shareholder who is a U.S. taxpayer. These consequences include the following: (1) if a shareholder makes a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting an allocable share of the income of Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder, (2) if a shareholder makes a mark-to-market election with respect to Primus Guaranty, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting any year-end increases in the price of our common shares, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder (moreover, it is unclear how such an election would affect the shareholder with respect to Primus Bermuda), and (3) if a shareholder does not make a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, he or she may incur significant additional U.S. federal income taxes with respect to dividends on, or gain from, the sale or other disposition of, our common shares, or with respect to dividends from Primus Bermuda to us, or with respect to our gain on any sale or other disposition of Primus Bermuda shares. If we are found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, we may be liable for significant U.S. taxes. We believe that Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, both directly and through Primus Bermuda’s indirect ownership interest in Primus Financial (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership interest) and Primus Bermuda’s ownership interest in PGUK (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Bermuda), will operate their businesses in a manner that should not result in their being treated as engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, we do not expect to pay U.S. corporate income or branch profits tax on Primus Financial’s or PGUK’s income. However, because the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is fact-based and there are no definitive standards for making such a determination, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Financial or PGUK are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. The maximum combined rate of U.S. corporate federal, state and local income tax that could apply to Primus Financial, Primus Bermuda, Primus Guaranty or PGUK, were they found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business in New York City and subject to income tax, is currently approximately 46%. This combined income tax rate does not include U.S. branch profits tax that would be imposed on Primus Bermuda, were Primus Financial or PGUK, found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Bermuda. The branch profits tax, were it to apply, would apply at the rate of 30% on amounts deemed distributed. Primus Guaranty and certain of its subsidiaries are currently undergoing U.S. federal tax audits, but no audit has yet been completed. 26 Table of Contents If the IRS successfully challenges the treatment Primus Financial has adopted for its credit swap transactions, the timing and character of taxable income recognized by Primus Financial could be adversely affected. Consistent with its treatment of the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial as the sale of options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have determined that in general Primus Financial will recognize income or loss as a protection seller or buyer only upon occurrence of a credit event under or termination of the credit swaps. There is no definitive authority in support of the treatment by Primus Financial of its credit swaps as options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we do not intend to seek a ruling from the IRS on this point. In addition, the IRS has been studying the treatment of derivative transactions generally, including credit swaps, and has issued a notice requesting submissions from taxpayers regarding the manner in which they conduct their credit swap activities and indicating that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS are contemplating issuing specific guidance in this area. No assurance can be given as to whether or when such guidance may be issued, whether it would be applied retroactively or whether it will be adverse to Primus Financial. Certain proposals under discussion could be inconsistent with the tax treatment adopted by Primus Financial. If the IRS were to assert successfully that the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial should be treated differently or these proposals were adopted, (1) the timing of the income recognized by Primus Financial could be accelerated, (2) the character of this income could be altered and (3) Primus Bermuda and Primus Guaranty, as non-U.S. persons, could be subject to U.S. income tax, or withholding tax at the rate of 30%. In addition, were these changes in character to apply and were Primus Bermuda (through its investment in Primus Financial) and Primus Guaranty (through its investment in Primus Financial) found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, Primus Bermuda’s and Primus Guaranty’s recognition of taxable income would be accelerated. Risks Related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Because Primus Guaranty is organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Primus Guaranty based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against Primus Guaranty or its directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, or would hear actions against Primus Guaranty or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the U.S. and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of U.S. courts and some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act 1981, as amended, of Bermuda, or the Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would U.S. persons who own common shares of a U.S. corporation. 27 Table of Contents We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then, subject to certain limitations, the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Re or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union considerations. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated June 26, 2000, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices by the end of 2005 and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 