Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We have entered into the Merger Agreement with Express Scripts. Express Scripts and the Company may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the mergers contemplated by the Merger Agreement (collectively, “the Merger”) or may be required to accept conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger as a condition to obtaining regulatory approvals; the length of time necessary to consummate the proposed Merger may be longer than anticipated; a condition to closing of the Merger may not be satisfied; problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of Express Scripts and the Company; Express Scripts may be unable to realize the synergies expected from the Merger; the Merger may involve unexpected costs; the businesses may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the proposed Merger and the industry may be subject to future risks that are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) reports filed by Express Scripts and the Company. 21 Table of Contents On July 20, 2011, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Express Scripts. Our ability to complete the proposed Merger is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that Express Scripts and the Company may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the Merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement or may be required to accept conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Merger as a condition to obtaining regulatory approvals; the risk that the length of time necessary to consummate the proposed Merger may be longer than anticipated; and the risk that a condition to closing of the Merger may not be satisfied. In addition, problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of Express Scripts and the Company. For example: Express Scripts may be unable to realize the synergies expected from the Merger, the Merger may involve unexpected costs, the businesses may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the proposed Merger and the industry may be subject to future risks that are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other SEC reports filed by Express Scripts and the Company. The shareholders approved the Merger on December 21, 2011. Completion of the Merger also requires certain regulatory approvals, which remain pending as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Current employees may experience uncertainty about their post-Merger roles with Express Scripts. This may materially adversely affect the ability of the Company to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. In addition, key employees may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Express Scripts following the Merger. Accordingly, we may not be able to attract or retain key employees to the same extent as we have in the past. Further, diversion of attention from ongoing operations on the part of management and employees could adversely affect our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we have relationships. While the Merger is pending, customers and strategic partners may delay or defer decisions to use the Company’s services, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings, as well as the market price of our common shares. In addition, customers may experience uncertainty about their Medco services, including integration, pricing, and customer service, after the closing of the Merger. This may materially adversely affect the ability of the Company to gain new customers and retain existing customers. Competition in the PBM, specialty pharmacy and broader healthcare industry is intense and could impair our ability to attract and retain clients. Competition among providers of healthcare services in the markets we serve is intense. We compete with a wide variety of market participants, including national, regional and local PBMs, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, insurance companies, health plans, large retail pharmacy chains, large retail stores and supermarkets with in-store pharmacy operations and Web pharmacies. Our competitors include many profitable and well-established companies that have significant financial, marketing and other resources. Some of our specialty pharmacy and clinical service offerings compete with similar services provided by smaller entities in niche markets. We have entered into a definitive Merger Agreement with Express Scripts. Our other main competitors include Aetna Inc., Catalyst Health Solutions, Inc., CIGNA Corporation, CVS Caremark Corporation, Humana Inc., Prime Therapeutics LLC, SXC Health Solutions Corp., Target Corporation, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (“UnitedHealth Group”) and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. We compete based on innovation and service, as well as on price. To attract new clients and retain existing clients, we must continually develop new products and services to assist clients in managing their pharmacy benefit programs. There is no guarantee that the investments we make will result in innovative products and services that are attractive to clients, or that we will be able to execute on our strategy for such products and services. Moreover, although we need to continue to expend significant resources to develop, acquire and implement new products and services in the future, we may not be able to do so. We cannot be sure we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to market our PBM services to clients successfully at our current levels of profitability. 22 Table of Contents Part of our ability to remain profitably competitive in winning and retaining business relies on our ability to secure competitive retail pharmacy reimbursement rates. Decreased competition among retail pharmacies may impact our ability to achieve competitive rates from retail pharmacies. Consolidation of client entities within the markets we serve, as well as the consolidation of our competitors, or suppliers could impair our ability to attract and retain clients. The failure to retain our key clients and their members, either as a result of economic conditions, increased competition or other factors, could result in significantly decreased revenues, harm to our reputation and decreased profitability. Our largest client, UnitedHealth Group, represented approximately $11,700 million, or 17%, of our net revenues during 2011. Although none of our other clients individually represented more than 10% of our net revenues in 2011, our top 10 clients as of December 31, 2011, including UnitedHealth Group, represented approximately 46% of our net revenues during 2011. On July 21, 2011, we announced that our pharmacy benefit services agreement with UnitedHealth Group would not be renewed, although we will continue to provide services under the current agreement until it expires on December 31, 2012. In addition to UnitedHealth Group, other top 10 clients representing approximately 13% of our net revenues did not renew for 2012 as a result of acquisitions by competitors or transitioning in the normal course of business. If we are not able to replace this lost business by generating new sales with comparable operating margins or successfully executing other corporate strategies, our revenues and results of operations could suffer. Any further loss of one or more of our large clients could result in declines in revenues unless replaced with new business and lead to a negative reaction in the investment community or otherwise cause harm to our reputation, resulting in stock price declines or other adverse effects. In addition, although we believe our current liquidity and prospects for strong cash flows from operations, including effective working capital management, assist in limiting the effects on our business from current economic factors, our business may not be immune to the general risks and uncertainties affecting many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, global economic slowdown or geopolitical events. Our revenues and results of operations could suffer, for example, if employers drop healthcare coverage for some or all of their employees, including retirees, as a result of weakness in the economy, changes in law, or rising costs. Government efforts to reduce healthcare costs and alter healthcare financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced profitability. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act enacted on March 23, 2010 (“healthcare reform legislation”), along with associated proposed, interim final and final rule-making, may have an adverse impact on our business. For example, the federal Retiree Drug Subsidy is less valuable to our clients due to the change in tax treatment of the subsidy. As a result, our clients may choose to drop or limit retiree prescription drug coverage. Further, private plan sponsors may react to the new laws and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing, foregoing or delaying the purchase of our PBM services. We cannot accurately predict the complete impact of healthcare reform legislation, but it could lead to a decreased demand for our services and other outcomes that could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, the healthcare reform legislation significantly increased regulation of managed care plans and decreased reimbursement to Medicare managed care and fee-for-service programs. Some of these initiatives purport to, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary. Moreover, to alleviate budget shortfalls, states have reduced or frozen payments to Medicaid managed care plans. While we expect the U.S. Congress and state legislatures to continue to consider legislation affecting managed care plans, we cannot predict the extent of the impact of future legislation on us. However, these initiatives could limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. 23 Table of Contents If we are not successful in the continued execution of our retiree strategy, including the potential loss of Medicare Part D-eligible members, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. Our retiree strategy is multi-faceted and includes the provision of products and services in support of our clients’ Medicare Part D plans or federal Retiree Drug Subsidy. In addition, our strategy includes managing the potential loss of Medicare-eligible members covered under our programs with our PBM clients. Lastly, we participate in the Medicare Part D benefit with our own PDP. We continue to make substantial investments in the personnel and technology necessary to administer our retiree strategy. In time, the Medicare Part D prescription benefit could have the effect of rendering existing prescription drug benefit plans less valuable to our clients and their members, which would reduce the total market for PBM services. In addition, some of our clients could decide to discontinue providing traditional prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. If this occurs, the adverse effects of the loss of these members may outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the Medicare Part D benefit through our clients’ Medicare Part D plans and our own PDP. Because of this uncertainty, we cannot accurately predict the long-term impact of these risks on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we have various contractual and regulatory compliance requirements associated with participating in Medicare Part D. Similar to our requirements with other clients, our policies and practices associated with executing our PDP are subject to audit. If material contractual or regulatory non-compliance was to be identified, monetary penalties and/or applicable sanctions, including suspension of enrollment and marketing or debarment from participation in Medicare programs, may be imposed. The Medicare Part D health plan clients we serve are subject to similar risks and could be penalized or sanctioned, which may in turn adversely impact Medco’s business and financial results. Like many aspects of our business, the administration of the Medicare Part D program is complex. Any failure to execute the provisions of the Medicare Part D program, as well as our overall retiree strategy may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Pending legislation, if passed, along with associated rule-making could also have a financial impact on our CMS-approved PDP. For a description of this risk, see "—Government efforts to reduce healthcare costs and alter healthcare financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced profitability.” If we, or our suppliers or service providers fail to comply with complex and evolving laws and regulations domestically and internationally, we could suffer penalties, be required to pay substantial damages and/or make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to numerous foreign and domestic, federal and state regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with existing or future applicable domestic and international laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or other damages, including the loss of our licenses to operate our mail-order pharmacies, and our ability to participate in foreign and domestic, federal and state healthcare programs. As a consequence of the severe penalties we may face, we must devote significant operational and managerial resources to comply with these laws and regulations. Although we believe we and our suppliers are substantially compliant with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies related to these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or require us to make significant changes to our operations. Currently, the government is conducting numerous, and often overlapping audits on pharmacies and suppliers of products to Medicare and Medicaid members, as well as audits of entities contracting with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) under the Medicare Part D program. Accredo Health Group and Liberty are subject to such audits and face or may face recoupment demands which may result in the payment or offset of prior reimbursement from the government. In 24 Table of Contents addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or ensure we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. Our international business is also susceptible to a changing political and regulatory landscape. Changes in laws or interpretations in countries in which we operate may impair our ability to serve these customers and adversely impact the financial condition, liquidity and operating results of our international operations. Moreover, our clinical research activities are subject to a number of complex and stringent regulations affecting the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We offer services relating to the conduct of clinical trials and the preparation of marketing applications, and are required to comply with applicable regulatory requirements governing, among other things, the design, conduct, performance, monitoring, auditing, recording, analysis and reporting of these trials. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) governs these activities pursuant to the agency’s Good Clinical Practice (GCP) regulations. Although we monitor our clinical trials, registries and studies to test for compliance with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate, and have adopted standard operating procedures that are designed to satisfy regulatory requirements, our business is subject to several regulatory jurisdictions with complex and varied regulatory frameworks. Any failure to maintain compliance with GCPs or other applicable regulations could lead to a variety of sanctions including, among others, suspension or termination of a clinical study, civil penalties, criminal prosecutions or debarment from assisting in the submission of new drug applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts, rebates and service fees from manufacturers at current levels, or maintain productive relationships with the constituents in our retail networks, our gross margins may decline. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers providing us with purchase discounts on drugs dispensed from our mail-order pharmacies, and service fees for activities performed for certain specialty products and, in the case of many pharmaceutical manufacturers, rebates on specified brand-name prescription drugs dispensed through mail order and retail. Most of these discounts and rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts and rebate pass-backs. Manufacturer rebates often depend on our ability to meet contractual market share or other requirements. Our clients often have contractual rights relating to their formulary structure, and while our programs aim to maximize savings to clients, clients are often making specific choices regarding which drugs to place on their formularies. Our profitability can be impacted by these client decisions. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry (both manufacturers of brand-name drugs, as well as generic drugs) continues to consolidate and this may impact our drug purchasing costs and our profitability. Changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations (such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act enacted on March 23, 2010) relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as some of the formulary and other services we provide to pharmaceutical manufacturers, could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. Additionally, we have contractual relationships covering over 60,000 independent and chain retail pharmacies that participate in one or more of our retail networks. If we are not successful in maintaining productive relationships with the constituents in our retail networks, our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results could be adversely impacted. From time to time we engage in transactions to acquire other companies or businesses and if we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses into ours, our operating results may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, the integration of these businesses has required, and will likely continue to require, significant resources and management attention. 25 Table of Contents From time to time we engage in transactions to acquire or otherwise align with other companies or businesses. In order to realize the intended benefits of both past and future transactions, we must effectively integrate these business activities into ours. If we fail to successfully integrate these business activities or if they fail to perform as we anticipated, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If the due diligence of the operations of these acquired businesses performed by us or by third parties on our behalf were inadequate or flawed, or if we later discover unforeseen financial or business liabilities, the acquired businesses may not perform as expected. Operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than we anticipated. Finally, difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products could result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. International operations are also subject to additional risks, which could include variation in local economies, export and import restrictions, currency fluctuations, trade barriers, the burden of complying with a variety of international laws, and political and economic instability. New legislative or regulatory initiatives that restrict or prohibit the PBM industry’s ability to use patient identifiable information could limit our ability to use information critical to the operation of our business. Many of our products and services rely on our ability to use patient identifiable information. In addition to electronically reviewing hundreds of millions of prescriptions each year, we collect and process confidential information through many of our programs and alliances, including RationalMed® and point-of-care initiatives. There is currently substantial regulation at the federal and state levels addressing the use and disclosure of patient identifiable medical and other information. Failure to comply with standards issued pursuant to state or federal statutes or regulations may result in criminal penalties and civil sanctions. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation,” above. These and future regulations and legislation severely restricting or prohibiting our use of patient identifiable medical and other information could limit our ability to use information critical to the operation of our business. If we violate a patient’s privacy or are found to have violated any state or federal statute or regulation with regard to the confidentiality, dissemination or use of patient medical information, we could be liable for significant damages, fines or penalties and suffer reputational harm. Our Specialty Pharmacy business is dependent on our relationships with a limited number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology suppliers. As such, the loss of one or more of these relationships, or limitations on our ability to provide services to these suppliers, could significantly impact our ability to sustain and/or improve our financial performance. We derive a substantial percentage of our Specialty Pharmacy segment revenue and profitability from our relationships with a limited number of suppliers. Our agreements with these suppliers may be short-term and cancelable by either party without cause on 30 to 365 days prior notice. These agreements may limit our ability to provide services for competing drugs during the term of the agreement and allow the supplier to distribute through channels other than us. Further, certain of these agreements allow pricing and other terms of these relationships to be periodically adjusted for changing market conditions or required service levels. A termination or modification to any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to grow our Specialty Pharmacy business could be limited if we do not expand our existing base of drugs or if we lose patients. Our Specialty Pharmacy segment focuses on the delivery of chronic and complex medications that are expensive and serve relatively small patient populations. Due to the limited patient populations utilizing the drugs our Specialty Pharmacy business handles, our future growth relies in part on expanding our base of drugs or penetration in drug categories, or disease states such as oncology. Further, a loss of patients, a reduction in demand for any reason for the drugs we currently dispense or a decrease in new specialty medications brought to market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our Specialty Pharmacy business, certain revenues from diabetes testing supplies and our Medicare Part D offerings expose us to increased billing, cash application and credit risks. Additionally, current economic conditions may expose us to increased credit risk. A portion of our Specialty Pharmacy business is funded through medical benefit coverage, the majority of which is provided by private insurers, as well as reimbursement by government agencies. These Specialty Pharmacy claims are generally for very high-priced medicines, and collection of payments from insurance companies, patients and other payors generally takes substantially longer than for those claims administered through a PBM benefit. Because of the high cost of these claims, complex billing requirements and the nature of the medical benefit coverage determination process, these accounts receivable are characterized by higher risk in collecting the full amounts due and applying the associated payments. Revenues from the sale of diabetes testing supplies under our Liberty brand depend on the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. The government’s Medicare regulations are complex and, as a result, the billing and collection process is time-consuming and typically involves the submission of claims to multiple payors whose payment of claims may be contingent upon the payment of another payor. Because of the coordination with multiple payors and the complexity in determining reimbursable amounts, these accounts receivable have higher risk in collecting the full amounts due and applying the associated payments. Our Medicare Part D product offerings require premium payments from members for the ongoing benefit, as well as amounts due from CMS. As a result of the demographics of the consumers covered under these programs and the complexity of the calculations, as well as the potential magnitude and timing of settlement for amounts due from CMS, these accounts receivable are subject to billing and realization risk in excess of what is experienced in the core PBM business. Additionally, we may be subject to increased credit risk associated with state and local government agencies experiencing increased fiscal challenges. As a result of these aforementioned risks, we may be required to record bad debt expenses potentially impacting our results of operations and liquidity. Changes in reimbursement, including reimbursement for durable medical equipment, could negatively affect our revenues and profits. A portion of our Accredo Health Group revenues and the majority of our Liberty revenues are tied to the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. Any reduction in Medicare or other government program or private plan reimbursements currently available for our products would reduce our revenues and profits to the extent we are unable to generate a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products. Additionally, our profits could be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare or other government program reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts, and due to potential budget limitations being experienced by many states, we could experience reductions in our Medicaid reimbursement for certain drugs dispensed by our specialty pharmacies under our Accredo brand. Specifically in regard to our revenues and profits associated with our diabetes testing supplies business, the Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics, Orthotics and Supplies (DMEPOS) Competitive Bid Program (the “Program”), provides for a phased-in program for competitive bidding of certain durable medical equipment items, including mail-order diabetes testing supplies. In July 2010, CMS announced new single payment amounts for diabetes testing supplies, which averaged 56% off the current fee schedule amounts for such supplies under Round 1, impacting a limited number of geographic areas. Liberty’s bid was not aligned with these single payment amounts. In November 2010, CMS announced the names of the winners for Round 1, where reimbursement rates became effective January 2011 for the limited number of geographic areas. Although Liberty will not be a contracted supplier in the competitively bid areas, Round 1 of the Program affects fewer than 7% of Liberty’s base membership. On November 30, 2011, CMS announced the parameters relating to a national mail-order competitive bid program. The 60-day bidding window will begin on January 30, 2012, and run until March 30, 2012. While CMS implementation of a national mail-order competitive bid program is not expected until at least 2013, if such a program is implemented and depending upon the level of reduction in reimbursement rates of the final bid program, our operating results could be negatively affected. 27 Table of Contents Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if the safety risk profiles of drugs increase or if drugs are withdrawn from the market, including as a result of manufacturing issues, or if prescription drugs transition to over-the-counter products. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our mail-order pharmacies and through networks of retail pharmacies, which are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles or manufacturing or other supply issues of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or otherwise reduce the numbers of prescriptions for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced global consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers or transition to over-the-counter products. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. Demand for our clinical research services depends on the willingness of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to outsource clinical development and on our reputation for independent, high-quality scientific research and evidence development. Our success in providing clinical research services depends on the ability and willingness of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to invest in research and development at rates close to or at historical levels and to otherwise outsource the services we provide. Accordingly, a general downturn in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, a reduction in research and development spending by companies in these industries, including any such reduction as a result of regulatory change, or an expansion of such companies’ in-house development capabilities could materially harm our clinical research service offering. In addition, demand for our clinical research services may be affected by our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers’ perceptions regarding the pharmaceutical outsourcing industry as a whole. For example, other pharmaceutical outsourcing companies could engage in, conduct or fail to detect malfeasance that could render our customers less willing to do business with us or any pharmaceutical outsourcing company, such as inadequately monitoring sites, producing inaccurate databases or analyses, falsifying patient records, or performing incomplete lab work. If any such event causing industry-wide reputational harm were to occur, even though outside our control, confidence in the industry generally could be impaired and the willingness of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource services to organizations that provide clinical research services like ours could diminish. Moreover, demand for our clinical research services depends to a significant extent on the trust our customers place in us and our reputation for independent, high-quality scientific research. To this end, we have implemented policies and procedures to, among other things, separate or “firewall” some of our clinical research and core PBM activities. In the event that our protocols or procedures are not followed, or our research designs contain undetected errors or defects that are subsequently discovered by us, our customers or a third party, or we produce inaccurate or controversial databases or analyses, our reputation with current and potential pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers could be harmed. If one or more of the foregoing events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. PBMs could be subject to claims under ERISA if they are found to be a fiduciary of a health benefit plan governed by ERISA. PBMs typically provide services to corporations and other sponsors of health benefit plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). ERISA regulates employee pension benefit plans and employee welfare benefit plans, including health and medical plans. The U.S. 28 Table of Contents Department of Labor (“DOL”), which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by a PBM where the PBM had not agreed to accept fiduciary responsibility. We have settled the final two lawsuits which claim we are a fiduciary under ERISA. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If a court were to determine, in litigation brought by a private party or in a proceeding arising out of a position taken by the DOL, that we were a fiduciary in connection with services for which we had not agreed to accept fiduciary responsibility, we could potentially be subject to claims for breaching fiduciary duties and/or entering into certain “prohibited transactions” that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Pending litigation could adversely impact our business practices and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. We are party to various legal proceedings and are subject to litigation risks. The most significant legal proceedings to which Medco is a party are described in detail in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses in each of the matters described therein, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations in any particular period. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for Medicare and Medicaid programs. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation—Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices and Potentially Affecting the Market for Prescription Drug Benefit Plans and Reimbursement for Durable Medical Equipment,”included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. At least one Medicaid program has adopted, and other Medicaid programs, some states and some commercial payors may adopt, those aspects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (P.L. 108-173) or the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (P.L. 109-171) that either result in or appear to result in price reductions for drugs covered by such programs. Adoption of alternative pricing sources, such as Average Sales Price (“ASP”), Average Manufacturer’s Price (“AMP”), Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”), or other alternative pricing in lieu of AWP as the measure for determining reimbursement by state Medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our Specialty Pharmacy business, could materially reduce the revenue and gross margins of this business. We are subject to a corporate integrity agreement and noncompliance may impede our ability to conduct business with the federal government. As part of a civil settlement with the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and other federal government agencies, in October 2006, Medco entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the United States Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management Office of the Inspector General. The agreement is designed to ensure that Medco’s compliance program meets certain requirements. The agreement provides for, among other things, that Medco continue to have a Compliance Officer, a Compliance Committee, a Code of Conduct that is disseminated to employees, a toll-free number for employees to report potential violations of Covered Federal Program requirements, written policies and procedures (including the establishment of new databases), regular training for all employees with regard to Medco’s Code of Conduct, and various auditing programs. Failure to comply with the obligations of this corporate integrity agreement could result in debarment from participation in certain federal business arrangements, financial penalties and damage to Medco’s reputation. Currently, we are awaiting notification from the OIG indicating that we have completed all requirements. 29 Table of Contents The terms and covenants relating to our existing indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and liquidity. Like other companies that incur debt, we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. Our credit facilities, accounts receivable financing facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including a maximum total debt-to-EBITDA ratio. Our continued ability to borrow under our credit facilities and accounts receivable financing facility is subject to our compliance with such financial and other covenants. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the credit facilities, accounts receivable financing facility and/or indentures, and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or not be able to draw down against our facility. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. See Note 8, “Debt,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, of our total outstanding borrowings of approximately $5.0 billion, $2.2 billion is impacted by variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense and could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses not covered by insurance. Our commercial professional liability insurance policies are expected to cover up to $85 million per occurrence and in the aggregate during a policy period. In addition to our commercial professional liability insurance policies, we have a retained liability component requiring certain self-insurance reserves to cover potential claims. We currently process any claims included in self-insured retention levels through a captive insurance company. A successful professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage, or one for which an exclusion from coverage applies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe most of the claims described in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are unlikely to be covered by insurance. Failure to maintain the security of our technology infrastructure, or information systems, or those of our third party providers could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. We also rely on third party providers to manage a significant portion of our information systems. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data, and we and our third party providers must maintain our business processes and information systems and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect our systems and business operations against cyber incidents such as security breaches, deliberate disruptive attacks, attempts to gain unauthorized access to systems for improper purposes and unintentional events, failure to protect such systems and information, or the systems of our third party service providers, or to mitigate any such incidents or breaches may adversely affect our operations. Our efforts to secure our systems may require us to incur additional expenditures on technology, personnel and training. In the event we or our third party providers experience cyber security incidents, malfunctions in business processes, breaches of information systems, failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems or unauthorized and non-compliant actions by any individual, this could disrupt our business operations or impact patient safety; result in the misuse or disclosure of proprietary or other confidential information, including confidential information of our clients or members; subject us to customer and member disputes; damage our reputation; expose us to risk of loss, litigation or regulatory violations; increase expenses to repair and improve systems; or lead to other adverse consequences. Significant disruptions to our infrastructure or any of our facilities due to failure of technology or some other catastrophic event could adversely impact our business. 30 Table of Contents We have automated and other mail-order dispensing pharmacies, call centers, data centers and corporate facilities. All of these facilities depend on the local infrastructure and the uninterrupted operation of our computerized dispensing systems and our electronic data processing systems. Significant disruptions at any of these facilities or our suppliers’ facilities due to failure of technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or malice, an epidemic or pandemic or some other catastrophic event could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce, or partially or totally eliminate, our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members. Business process and technology infrastructure improvements associated with our agile enterprise initiative may not be successfully or timely implemented or may fail to operate as designed and intended, causing the Company’s performance to suffer. We rely on information technology to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations, to process, transmit, store, access and protect electronic information, to interface with our customers and suppliers, and to record and process financial transactions accurately. We have embarked on a multi-year initiative intended to transform our business and establish a more agile enterprise. This initiative includes upgrades to, and realignment of, our information systems designed to improve business processes and data management across our company by delivering a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies that are scalable and standardized across our operations. The transformation from our existing technology base to our new foundational technology platform will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of approximately three to five years. Management believes the planned system upgrades will further enhance our productivity in operations and prove to be cost-effective. However, we can offer no assurances that these system upgrades will deliver the expected benefits. If our business process improvement initiatives fail, or if we are not successful or experience delays in implementing new systems, training personnel or transitioning data, our ability to improve existing operations, process transactions accurately and efficiently, achieve anticipated cost savings and support future growth could be delayed or not fully realized. In addition, any business disruption that ensues could harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. Moreover, it is possible the cost to complete the systems conversions may exceed current expectations and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition. Failure to implement our agile enterprise initiative as planned or the incurrence of costs in excess of expectations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded intangible assets or goodwill are impaired, or if we shorten intangible asset useful lives. We have over $2.1 billion of recorded intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. For our PBM segment, our intangible assets primarily represent the value of client relationships that had been pushed down to our consolidated balance sheets and existed when we became an independent, publicly traded company in 2003, and to a lesser extent, our acquisitions subsequent to 2003. For our Specialty Pharmacy segment, we have intangible assets recorded primarily from our acquisition of Accredo Health, Incorporated in 2005. Under current accounting rules, intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. These assets may become impaired with events such as the loss of significant clients or specialty product manufacturer contracts, changes in the usage of trade names, or when other changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For our intangible assets, if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the undiscounted pre-tax expected future cash flows from the lowest appropriate asset grouping, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statement of income in the amount the carrying value of these assets exceeds the discounted expected future cash flows. In addition, while our intangible assets may not be impaired, the useful lives are subject to continual assessment. This assessment may result in a reduction of the remaining weighted average useful life of these assets, resulting in potentially significant increases to non-cash amortization expense charged to our consolidated statement of income, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 31 Table of Contents We also have over $6.9 billion of recorded goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually for each of our segments’ reporting units. This assessment includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value of the assets assigned to that reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit were to exceed our estimate of fair value of the reporting unit, we would then be required to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities within the reporting unit to ascertain the fair value of goodwill. We utilize the income approach methodology, which projects future cash flows discounted to present value based on certain assumptions about future operating performance. If we determine that the fair value is less than the book value based on updates to the assumptions, we could be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statement of income, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. We are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations. We have international operations that conduct business in various countries throughout Europe, North America and Asia. Certain risks are inherent in these international operations, including without limitation: (1) vigorous regulation of the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries and of the products and services that our companies test or market abroad; (2) difficulty complying with a variety of ever-changing foreign laws and regulations, or United States laws and regulations applicable abroad, some of which may conflict with one another, including but not limited to tax, labor, employment, anti-bribery and privacy and data protection laws; (3) difficulty enforcing agreements, intellectual property rights and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; (4) tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation; (5) complexities of managing a multinational organization; (6) general economic and political conditions or terrorist activities in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; (7) exposure to exchange rate fluctuations; and (8) foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States. If we do not respond adequately to these risks, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could delay or deter a change in control and make it more difficult to remove incumbent officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and various provisions of the DGCL may make it more difficult to effect a change of control of our company or remove incumbent officers and directors. The existence of these provisions may adversely affect the price of our common stock, discourage third parties from making a bid to acquire our company or reduce any premium paid to our shareholders for their common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to attach special rights and preferences to this preferred stock. The issuance of this preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Moreover, as a result of our ownership of insurance companies, a third party attempting to effect a change of control of our company may be required to obtain approval from the applicable state insurance regulatory officials. The need for this approval may discourage third parties from making a bid for our company or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 32 Table of Contents 