Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations General economic and specific conditions in the global financial and credit markets may materially adversely affect our loss experience and our financial results. The global economy continues to demonstrate signs of stress in certain geographic and industry sectors which could create a greater level of risk to our business. Primus Financial may experience a higher level of credit events which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The successful amortization of the Primus Financial credit swap portfolio will be highly dependent on the level of credit losses in that portfolio over its remaining life. Management expects the credit markets will continue to be uncertain and volatile for some time and that certain industry sectors could continue to experience further deterioration in their balance sheets and poor financial performance. In addition, certain regional economies, particularly in Europe, have shown weakness during 2011. These factors could increase the potential for additional credit events. It is possible that the level of credit event losses that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. Primus Financial’s portfolio includes significant exposure on credit swaps sold referencing a number of global financial intermediaries and banks, including senior and subordinated debt issued by financial institutions. A number of these institutions have received capital infusions and support from governments and central banks. Additionally, many of these institutions may have to raise new capital or shrink their businesses to meet new regulatory capital requirements. These factors, combined with the potential future deterioration in certain European economies and concerns about financial institutions’ holdings of certain sovereign debt obligations and cross-border exposures, increases the possibility of default. The failure to manage effectively the risk of credit losses would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During the period from 2009 through 2011, we completed several risk mitigation transactions in Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio as part of our plan to actively manage this portfolio in amortization. The objectives of these transactions, which included both portfolio repositioning transactions of single name credit swaps and tranche transactions with certain counterparties and terminations of selected credit swaps referencing specific Reference Entities, were to reduce the risk of certain Reference Entity concentrations, as well as to improve the capital subordination levels in certain tranche transactions. However, there cannot be any assurance that any of the transactions which we have completed or which we may complete in the future will be effective. In addition, if the level of credit events were to exceed our expectations, the payments Primus Financial would be required to make under its related credit swaps could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even though we may identify a heightened risk of default with respect to a particular Reference Entity or Entities, our ability to limit Primus Financial’s losses, through hedging, terminating credit swaps or other risk mitigation transactions, before defined credit events actually occur could be limited by conditions of inadequate liquidity in the credit swap market or conditions which render terminations, hedging or such other risk mitigation transactions economically impractical. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage higher risks of credit losses effectively. It is possible that the level of credit events that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio of credit swaps also creates risks for us. As of December 31, 2011, Primus Financial’s portfolio of credit swap tranches sold was $3.8 billion (in notional amount). Tranches generally reference pools of credit swaps and have capital subordination levels that are designed to protect against making cash payments upon some number of credit events affecting the Reference Entities referenced in the tranche. Primus Financial’s portfolio of credit swap tranches includes exposure to European financial institutions which have increased risk of default as noted above. Primus Financial’s portfolio of credit swap tranches also includes exposure to mortgage 15 Table of Contents insurers and financial guaranty companies based in the United States which have been adversely affected by the decline in the real estate market. Since 2008, a combination of credit events with respect to certain Reference Entities in Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio has caused the subordination levels to be reduced or eradicated. Additional credit events in the future may further reduce subordination levels, and if subordination is eradicated, Primus Financial may be required to make cash payments to the relevant counterparty, potentially to the full notional amount of the tranche transaction. This would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While management of Primus Financial has terminated certain tranche transactions and completed risk mitigation transactions seeking to improve the capital subordination levels or replace higher risk reference entities in certain tranche transactions, there can be no assurance that any such risk mitigation transactions, previously completed or completed in the future, will be successful. Primus Financial’s counterparties are global financial institutions. A default by a major counterparty could have a material adverse impact on Primus Financial. The insolvency of a major swap counterparty could have a material adverse impact on Primus Financial as it is likely the insolvent counterparty would cease making premium payments on its credit swap agreements. It may be difficult for Primus Financial to cancel its contracts with an insolvent counterparty, with the contingent risk that the defaulting counterparty may be successful in making claims for credit events on a Reference Entity under a credit swap agreement with that counterparty. Variations in market credit swap premiums and correlation levels could cause our financial results to be volatile. Events causing market credit swap premium levels to widen or tighten or correlation levels to change significantly on underlying Reference Entities in Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio will affect the fair value of related credit swaps and may increase the volatility of our financial results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In accordance with GAAP, we are required to report credit swaps at fair value, with changes in fair value during periods recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated statements of operations. The principal determinant of the fair value of a credit swap is the prevailing market premium associated with the underlying Reference Entity at the time the valuation is derived. The valuation of Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio also incorporates assumptions relating to the correlation of defaults between Reference Entities. The fair value of credit swaps also is affected by our estimation of counterparties and Primus Financial’s ability to perform under the credit swap contracts. Generally, valuations for credit swaps in Primus Financial’s portfolio rely upon market pricing quotations from third-party pricing providers and dealers. We cannot provide assurance that there will be a broadly based and liquid market to provide reliable market quotations in the future, particularly in circumstances where there is abnormal volatility or lack of liquidity in the market. Factors that may cause market credit swap premiums and correlation assumptions to fluctuate include changes in national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, credit events within an industry, changes in a Reference Entity’s operating results, credit swap market liquidity, credit rating, cost of funds, management or any other factors leading investors to revise expectations about a Reference Entity’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations when due. Volatility in our reported GAAP results may cause our common share price to fluctuate significantly. We are exposed to significant credit market risk related to changes in foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Primus Financial’s credit swaps are denominated in both U.S. dollars and euros. Approximately 34% of Primus Financial’s outstanding total credit swap portfolio of $8.1 billion (in notional amount) at December 31, 2011 was denominated in euros. The notional principal of the credit swap is denominated in euros and the premiums are payable in euros, and therefore our credit exposure is affected by changes in the exchange rate between euros and U.S. dollars. We translate euros into U.S. dollars at the current market exchange rates for the purpose of recognizing credit swap premium income and the computation of fair values in our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the exchange rates between euros 16 Table of Contents and U.S. dollars may have an adverse affect on the fair value of credit swaps, settlement of potential credit event losses and premium income in our consolidated statements of operations. We do not hedge against foreign exchange rate risk. A significant proportion of our capital is invested in corporate securities. We cannot be assured that there will not be defaults or adverse price movements or defaults in these securities. At December 31, 2011, approximately $340.2 million of our investment capital was invested in securities issued by corporations, predominantly domiciled in the United States. These securities are, as a general rule, investment grade and have a remaining tenor of less than three years. However, we cannot be assured that there will not be adverse price movements or defaults in these securities resulting in a weakening of our financial position and adverse financial results. Our operations may become subject to increased regulation or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that new legal or administrative interpretations or regulations under the U.S. commodities and securities laws, or other applicable legislation on the federal or state levels, or in Bermuda or other jurisdictions, will not adversely affect our business by, among other things, imposing administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences. In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and this act potentially affects Primus Financial as a seller of credit swaps. The rules for implementation of this legislation are being drafted and promulgated by a number of U.S. federal regulatory agencies and it is not yet possible to estimate how the new law and regulations will affect the operations of Primus Financial. During 2010, the Company changed its strategy and sold or terminated the majority of its asset management initiatives in order to concentrate on the amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio. The disposition of Primus’ CLO business was effected through a merger and a revenue-sharing arrangement with a third-party CLO manager. The proceeds from the sale and the shared revenues are contingent upon the future collection of management fees on the CLOs, which in turn depends on the financial performance of the CLOs and continued management of the CLOs by the third-party CLO manager. The sale of our CLO business was effected through an earn-out process whereby the CLOs are managed or sub-advised by a third party but Primus continues to collect a portion of the CLO management fee streams. If CLO management fees are reduced or eradicated in the future then the earn-out of the fees will be reduced or eradicated and our financial results will be adversely affected. We may have difficulty in servicing our outstanding debt. At December 31, 2011, Primus Guaranty, Ltd. had $88.3 million outstanding of its 7% Senior Notes due 2036 (the “7% Senior Notes”). As a holding company, we currently rely on investment income from our portfolio of investments, capital resources of the holding company and dividends and/or distributions from our subsidiaries to service the interest on the 7% Senior Notes above current levels. If our investment income or our capital resources were to decline such that they were insufficient to pay interest on the 7% Senior Notes, we may have difficulty finding other sources of income or capital to pay such interest and, as a result, have difficulty in servicing such debt. At December 31, 2011, Primus Financial had $175.5 million outstanding in aggregate of its perpetual preferred securities and subordinated deferrable interest notes. Primus Financial relies on its credit swap premiums and its investment income from its portfolio of investments to service the interest on its outstanding debt and make distribution payments on its perpetual preferred securities. If Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio suffers significant credit events, it will be forced to liquidate significant portions of its investment portfolio in order to pay claims to its counterparties, thereby also reducing the source of its investment income utilized to service its outstanding debt. 17 Table of Contents We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. In the current environment, as well as based upon our current strategic focus, it would be very difficult for Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial to raise additional capital should Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial need to do so. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, would likely be on terms that are not favorable to us or our shareholders but nonetheless, we might have to accept those terms. Any defaults on interest payments by either Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial on their respective debt and preferred security obligations would have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise additional capital in the future. In addition, Primus Guaranty has been repurchasing its common shares and its 7% Senior Notes and Primus Financial has been repurchasing its perpetual preferred securities and subordinated deferrable interest notes. Since the inception of these buyback programs in 2008 and through December 31, 2011, Primus Guaranty purchased and retired 13.7 million common shares at a cost of $40.7 million and $36.7 million of face amount of its 7% Senior Notes at a cost of $16.1 million. Primus Financial has repurchased $124.5 million of face amount of its outstanding debt and preferred securities at a cost of $64.9 million. There is no assurance that the capital repurchased in these transactions can be replaced. The Company may continue to make discretionary repurchases of its shares and debt in the future, if it believes it is appropriate to do so. If we cannot obtain or replace adequate capital when we need to do so, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain of our principal shareholders control us. At December 31, 2011, a few shareholders collectively owned the majority of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, collectively, are able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers, amalgamations or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. There is no assurance that the interests of our principal shareholders will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. Our rights plan may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change of control. On May 29, 2009, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Mellon Investor Services LLC, which we refer to as the rights plan, to contribute to the preservation of long-term value for our shareholders and to protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. In general terms, the rights plan works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group which acquires 20% or more of the outstanding common shares without the approval of our board of directors, subject to certain grandfather provisions. The provisions of our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, which could hinder shareholders’ ability to receive a premium for the Company’s common shares over the prevailing market prices. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to pay cash dividends on our common shares. Currently, we do not pay cash dividends on our common shares and we cannot be assured that funds will be available in the future to pay dividends. We are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than our ownership of all of our subsidiaries. The majority of our capital is held at Primus Financial, and any determination for it to pay dividends or return capital to Primus Guaranty will be at the discretion of Primus Financial’s board of directors. Further, the payment of dividends and making of distributions by each of Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda is limited under Bermuda law 18 Table of Contents and regulations. Any determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We depend on a limited number of key employees. If we are not able to retain or replace key employees, we may be unable to operate our business successfully. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to employ key personnel and retain qualified personnel in the future. The sale or termination of the majority of the asset management business and change of the credit swap portfolio to an amortization status had the effect of decreasing the number of employees required to service the business. Accordingly, during 2010 and 2011 we reduced the number of employees and anticipate a continued reduction in employee headcount in the future. We believe we have sufficient employees to manage the amortization of the Primus Financial credit swap portfolio. However, given the reduction in staff, it may be difficult to provide coverage and find qualified replacements for employees who leave unexpectedly. We are highly dependent on information systems and third-party service providers. Our businesses are highly dependent on information systems and technology. We outsource our information systems operations to third parties who are responsible for providing the management, maintenance and updating of such systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our business activities and our ongoing credit analysis and risk management assessments. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face potential exposure to litigation and claims within our business and strategy. The volume of litigation and claims against financial services firms has increased over the past several years. The risk of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify, and may occur years after activities, transactions or events at issue. Any legal action brought against us and the costs to defend such action, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Taxation Our status as a PFIC may result in significant additional tax costs for shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers. Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda (which for purposes of the discussion in this section includes its former investments in certain CLOs) are likely to be and remain PFICs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There are potentially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC for a shareholder who is a U.S. taxpayer. These consequences include the following: (1) if a shareholder makes a QEF election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, the shareholder will have to include annually in its taxable income an amount reflecting an allocable share of the income of Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder, (2) if a shareholder has made a mark-to-market election (see “Tax Considerations” for further discussion) for a tax year prior to 2011 with respect to Primus Guaranty, the shareholder will have to include in its taxable income an amount reflecting any increases in the price of our common shares, regardless of not having received any dividends paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder for that tax year and subsequent years prior to 2011, with the mark-to-market election no longer being effective for the tax year 2011, reflecting the de-listing of Primus Guaranty from the NYSE (moreover, it is unclear how such an election would affect the shareholder with respect to Primus Bermuda), and (3) if a shareholder does not make a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, the shareholder may incur significant additional U.S. federal income taxes with respect to dividends on, or gain from, the sale or other disposition of, our common shares, or with respect to dividends from Primus Bermuda to us, or with respect to our gain on any sale or other disposition of Primus Bermuda shares. In addition, if a shareholder makes the QEF election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, it is possible that the shareholder’s allocable share of income from Primus Guaranty and/or Primus Bermuda may be 19 Table of Contents significantly greater in the tax years from 2012 onward than in prior years. This potential outcome reflects, among other factors, potential reductions in operating expenses and the potential timing of recognition of items of taxable income and loss relating to the Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio as it amortizes. If we are found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, we may be liable for significant U.S. taxes. We believe that Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, both directly and through Primus Bermuda’s indirect ownership interest in Primus Financial (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership interest), will operate their businesses in a manner that should not result in their being treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, we do not expect to pay U.S. corporate income or branch profits tax on Primus Financial’s income. However, because the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is fact-based and there are no definitive standards for making such a determination, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda or Primus Financial are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. The maximum combined rate of U.S. corporate federal, state and local income tax that could apply to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, or Primus Financial, were they found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business in New York City and subject to income tax, is currently approximately 46%. This combined income tax rate does not include U.S. branch profits tax that would be imposed on Primus Bermuda were Primus Financial found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Bermuda. The branch profits tax, were it to apply, would apply at the rate of 30% on amounts deemed distributed. Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Financial have undergone a U.S. federal income tax audit covering the tax years 2004 through 2006. Although management has not received formal notification from the IRS that the audit has been completed, the statute of limitations for the years in question has expired, and the Company has taken the position that the audit has concluded without any additional liability on behalf of the Company. Should this position be incorrect and should any issues considered in the audit be resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda could be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax. If the IRS successfully challenges the treatment Primus Financial has adopted for its credit swap transactions, the timing and character of taxable income recognized by Primus Financial could be adversely affected. Consistent with its treatment of the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial as the sale of options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have determined that in general Primus Financial will recognize income or loss as a protection seller or buyer only upon default, termination or expiration of the credit swaps. There is no definitive authority in support of the treatment by Primus Financial of its credit swaps as options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, a ruling from the IRS on this point. The Treasury Department has been studying the treatment of derivative transactions generally, including credit swaps, and on September 15, 2011 issued proposed regulations for comment relating to the taxation of credit swaps. The proposed regulations indicate that credit swaps should be taxed as NPCs which require a different tax treatment than for options. The proposed regulations have not been finalized. The proposed regulations indicate that the NPC treatment would be applied only to new swaps undertaken after the proposed tax regulations are ratified. Notwithstanding the proposed regulations, if the IRS were to assert successfully that the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial should be treated other than as options, (1) the timing of the income recognized by Primus Financial could be accelerated, (2) the character of this income could be altered and (3) Primus Bermuda and Primus Guaranty, as non-U.S. persons, could be subject to U.S. income tax, or withholding tax at the rate of 30% on its FDAP income. In addition, were these changes in character to apply and were Primus Bermuda (through its investment in Primus Financial) and Primus Guaranty (through its investment in Primus Financial) found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, Primus Bermuda’s and Primus Guaranty’s recognition of taxable income would be accelerated. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Because Primus Guaranty is organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Primus Guaranty based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against Primus Guaranty or its directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, or would hear actions against Primus Guaranty or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of U.S. courts and some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would U.S. persons who own common shares of a U.S. corporation. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Tax Protection Act, has given Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then, subject to certain limitations, the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. Considerations related to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at 21 Table of Contents counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and, as such is listed on the OECD “white list.” However, we are not able to predict what changes will be made to this classification or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 