D. Risk Factors Investment in Mitel’s common shares should be regarded as highly speculative and is suitable only for those investors who are able to sustain a total loss of their investment. Investors should carefully consider all information contained in this annual report, and should give particular consideration to the following risk factors, among others, when evaluating Mitel and its business and prospects. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect Mitel’s business, results of operations or financial condition and could result in a complete loss of an investment in Mitel. Mitel has incurred net losses from operations since its inception and may not be profitable in the future. Mitel has incurred net losses from operations since its inception. The future success of Mitel in attaining profitability and growing its revenue and market share for its products is dependent upon the ability of Mitel to build its brand image and reputation, attract orders, develop products that have a competitive advantage, and increase efficiency in design, component sourcing, manufacturing and assembly costs processes. The high technology industry is characterized by long and variable delays between expenses incurred for research and development (“R&D”) and sales and marketing and the generation of revenue, if any, from such expenditures. There can be no assurance that Mitel will be able to grow its revenue and market share or that there will not be developments that will require unanticipated expenditure of Mitel’s capital resources. Finally, there can be no assurance that Mitel will be able to achieve profitability or that, if achieved, such profitability can be sustained. Mitel may fail to achieve and sustain market acceptance of its products and technologies in broader industry segments. Mitel’s strategy has been to invest in developing Internet Protocol (“IP”) communications (“IP Communications”) platforms, devices and applications. It is however recognized that IP Communications products still represent, according to industry analysts, a minority of overall enterprise product sales and that not all product delivery channels are readily equipped to promote, market and sell a full suite of IP Communications products. As a result, such products may not achieve full market acceptance within the timeframe anticipated by Mitel, as customers may seek further validation of the efficiency and reliability of IP Communications technology, or such customers may adopt competing IP Communications technologies. In addition, Mitel’s revenues from the sale of traditional Time Division Multiplex (“TDM”) based products have continued to decline faster than the industry norm. Therefore, if IP Communications products are not adopted at the anticipated rate, Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The occurrence of design defects, errors, failures or “bugs” in Mitel’s products could result in damage to Mitel’s brand image and reputation, lost revenue, and the loss of, or delay in achieving, market acceptance of Mitel’s products, and adversely affect Mitel’s ability to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Mitel’s products are highly complex and, from time to time, may contain certain defects that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors, failures or “bugs” may be found in Mitel’s products after shipment to customers. If errors are discovered, Mitel may not be able to correct such errors in a timely manner or at all. The occurrence of errors and product failures could result in damage to Mitel’s reputation, lost revenue, and the loss of, or delay in achieving, market acceptance of Mitel’s products, and adversely affect Mitel’s ability to retain existing or attract new customers or delivery channels. Efforts to correct such errors and failures in 3 Table of Contents Mitel’s products could require significant expenditure of capital and resources by Mitel and, such efforts may not be successful. The sale and support of such products may entail the risk of product liability claims. In addition, the failure of Mitel’s products to perform to published specifications could give rise to warranty claims. Mitel’s insurance may not cover or its coverage may be insufficient to cover any such claims successfully asserted against Mitel or its contracted suppliers and manufacturers and therefore the consequences of such errors, failures and claims could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of Mitel’s products to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards could have an adverse effect on future sales. The markets for Mitel’s products are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, market consolidation, new market entrants, and frequent new product introductions. Mitel has invested and intends to continue to invest in the development of products. There can be no assurance that such products will be accepted in the face of competing products and changing customer requirements. Mitel may not be able to compete effectively in the highly competitive high technology industry. Mitel’s competitors include large corporations with greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales and other resources than those of Mitel. As a result, they may have an advantage over Mitel in developing new products, creating product awareness and attracting customers. There can also be no assurance that Mitel’s competitors will not develop technological innovations that will successfully compete against or render Mitel’s products obsolete or that Mitel will be able to sell its products to customers who have prior relationships with our competitors. Because Mitel depends upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers to manufacture the Company’s products, Mitel’s operations could be delayed or interrupted if the Company encounters problems with any of these contractors. Mitel does not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and therefore relies upon a small number of contract manufacturers to build the Company’s products. BreconRidge Manufacturing Solutions Corporation (“BreconRidge”) currently provides a significant majority of Mitel’s required manufacturing. This reliance involves a number of risks, including the possible absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. If any of the Company’s current contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing Mitel products in required volumes and at high quality levels, Mitel will have to identify, qualify and select acceptable alternative manufacturers. It is possible that an alternate source may not be available to Mitel when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy the Company’s production requirements at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require Mitel to reduce supply of products to the Company’s customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s customer relations, business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Part I, Item 7.B “Related Parties” and Item 10.C “Material Contracts” to this annual report for further information concerning the Company’s relationship with BreconRidge. Mitel depends on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components. If Mitel is unable to buy these components on a timely basis, the Company will not be able to deliver its products to its customers. Mitel depends on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components of the Company’s products. Any of the sole source suppliers upon which Mitel relies could stop producing the components, cease operations entirely, or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, Mitel’s competitors. As a result, these sole and limited source suppliers may stop selling their products or components to Mitel at commercially reasonable prices, if at all. Any such interruption, delay and the inability to obtain these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time would 4 Table of Contents adversely affect Mitel’s ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to its customers and would materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Third party software could adversely affect Mitel’s ability to develop and deliver its products on a timely and reliable basis. Mitel’s business may be harmed by a delay in delivery of software applications or components from one or more of its third party suppliers. In addition, most of these supply agreements can be terminated by the suppliers under various circumstances and are generally non-exclusive, which means that the suppliers may develop relationships with, and supply similar or the same software applications and components to, competitors. In the event that software application or component suppliers terminate their relationships with Mitel or are unable to fill Mitel’s orders on a timely basis, Mitel may be unable to deliver its products to meet customers’ orders if it is unable to develop alternative or additional supply sources, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past Mitel’s revenue from operations has not been sufficient to cover its operating expenses and Mitel may require additional equity or debt financing in the future. In previous years, Mitel’s revenue from operations was not sufficient to cover its operating expenses. Mitel issued senior convertible debt in April 2005, and convertible preferred shares in April 2004, in order to increase working capital, some of which was used to cover operating expenses. While Mitel believes that its expected cash flow from operations and other existing cash resources should be sufficient to satisfy Mitel’s cash requirements in fiscal 2006, there is no assurance that Mitel will not require additional equity or debt financing in the future. Failure to generate the expected level of cash flow from operations, or loss of existing financing could result in the delay or abandonment of some or all of Mitel’s business plans, the sale of assets, or the undertaking of other measures which could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that Mitel will be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all, any additional financing, if required, or that it will have sufficient cash collateral for “as-required” credit facilities, customer bid and performance bonds. Failure to obtain any required financing on satisfactory terms could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any such financing, if obtained, may involve the issuance of further equity at prices which may dilute an investor’s interest in Mitel, could result in Mitel’s assets being pledged as collateral or could result in loan terms which could restrict its operations. In addition, the holders of senior convertible debt instruments and certain holders of common shares and preferred convertible shares have price-based anti-dilution protection, which could be triggered by any such additional financing. The outstanding senior convertible debt instruments, preferred shares and certain warrants could adversely affect the market value of Mitel’s common shares as well as the ability of Mitel to complete any future equity financing. As at the end of the Transition Period, Mitel had outstanding: • 20,000,000 Class A Convertible Preferred Shares, Series 1 (the “Series A Shares”) and 67,789,300 Class B Convertible Preferred Shares, Series 1 (the “Series B Shares”), each of which is convertible into common shares (on a one-for-one basis and, in certain circumstances on a greater than one-for-one basis) of the Company at the option of the holders and upon certain triggering events (collectively, the “Preferred Shares”); • Stock options to acquire 18,456,249 common shares; • Warrants to acquire up to an additional 49,349,911 common shares, plus a warrant (granted to the lead investor in its April 2004 financing) to acquire certain additional common shares upon the occurrence of certain events, such number of common shares to be determined in accordance with the formula set forth in this warrant; and 5 Table of Contents • $55,000,000 (plus accrued interest) in senior secured convertible notes (the “Convertible Notes”) which may be converted into common shares on or after consummation of a qualified initial public offering (“Qualified IPO”) and upon certain triggering events. The issuance of Mitel’s common shares upon the conversion of its Preferred Shares or the exercise of certain warrants or stock options will likely occur at a time when the conversion or exercise price is below the market value of Mitel’s common shares. In addition, the Convertible Notes may be converted into common shares prior to a Qualified IPO in certain circumstances at a price which may be below the market value of Mitel’s common shares. Therefore, the conversion or exercise of these securities will likely have a dilutive effect on the market value of Mitel’s common shares. The conversion or exercise of these securities will also result in Mitel having more common shares outstanding, which would have a dilutive effect on its earnings per share. Furthermore, the Convertible Notes, the Preferred Shares, warrants and stock options, as well as the terms of these securities could materially impair Mitel’s future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Please see Part I, Item 6.E “Share Ownership”, Item 10.B “Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation” and Item 10.C “Material Contracts” to this annual report for further information concerning the Company’s stock options, Preferred Shares, warrants, and Convertible Notes. The exercise of put rights by certain shareholders, and the exercise of redemption and certain conversion rights by one or more of the Convertible Noteholders, would have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s cash flow and financial position. The holders of 10,000,000 common shares, 16,000,000 Series B Shares, and all of the Series A Shares have the right pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement to require Mitel to purchase all or any portion of such shares if Mitel has not completed an initial public offering by September 1, 2006. The exercise of these put rights, and the related cost to Mitel, would have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Part I, Item 10.C “Material Contracts” to this annual report for additional information concerning the above put rights. Under the Convertible Notes, in the event of a default, the holders of the Convertible Notes have the right to require Mitel to redeem all or a portion of the value of the Convertible Notes outstanding, and, in the event of any redemption deficiency, enforce the security interest held by them against the assets of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. In addition, in the event of a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Convertible Notes) that occurs prior to April 28, 2010, each Convertible Noteholder will have the option to either convert all or a portion of its Convertible Note into common shares of the Company or obligate the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the Convertible Note plus interest and, in either case, will also be entitled to receive from the Company a premium in the form of additional common shares (the “Make Whole Premium”). The exercise of these redemption or conversion rights would have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Part I, Item 10.C “Material Contracts” to this annual report for additional information concerning the above redemption and conversion rights, and the Make Whole Premium. The quarterly and annual revenue and operating results of Mitel have fluctuated historically. Therefore, the results of one period may not provide a reliable indicator of Mitel’s future performance. The quarterly and annual revenue and operating results of Mitel have fluctuated historically depending upon, among other factors, the timing of executed contracts and purchase orders. Accordingly, Mitel’s operating results over a particular period are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of investors. Factors which may cause Mitel’s financial results to fluctuate significantly from period to period include, but are not limited to: the fact that each individual order or contract can represent a substantial amount of revenue; many of Mitel’s products may require significant capital expenditures by the customer; the size, timing and shipment of individual orders; changes in pricing by Mitel or its competitors; discount levels; foreign currency exchange rates; the mix of products sold; the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products and/or product enhancements by Mitel and its competitors; and general economic 6 Table of Contents conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, a quarter-to-quarter or a year-to-year comparison of Mitel’s results of operations is not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely upon the results of one period as an indication of Mitel’s future performance. Please see Part I, Item 5.F “Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations” to this annual report for further information concerning Mitel’s funding related obligations. Mitel is exposed to risks inherent in its defined benefit pension plan which may have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow requirements, financial condition and results of operations. Mitel currently maintains a defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom. The contributions to fund benefit obligations under this plan are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain assumptions about the long-term operation of the plan, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and interest rates. If the actual operation of the plan differs from the assumptions, additional contributions by Mitel may be required. Any future requirements to make significant contributions to fund the defined benefit plan could have material adverse effects on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Mitel’s competitive position may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and its current currency hedging strategy may not be sufficient to counter such fluctuations. A significant portion of the business of Mitel is conducted in currencies other than the Canadian dollar. Due to the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, Mitel cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future sales. Mitel uses financial instruments, principally forward exchange contracts, in its management of foreign currency exposures. These contracts primarily require Mitel to purchase and sell certain foreign currencies with or for Canadian dollars at contractual rates. It is Mitel’s practice to monitor the financial standing of the counterparties to these financial instruments, which include several major financial institutions, and limit the amount of exposure to any one institution. Mitel may be exposed to a credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties of these contracts. Additionally, Mitel’s operations could be adversely affected if it is unable to guard against currency fluctuations in the future. There can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Mitel’s loss of key personnel or an inappropriate allocation of human resources within the business could hinder Mitel’s ability to achieve its objectives. The success of Mitel is dependent upon the services of a number of the members of its senior management and software and engineering staff, as well as the expertise of its directors. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s operations and business prospects. In addition, Mitel’s success also depends on its ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management and technical personnel. For instance, Mitel faces competition for qualified personnel, many of whom are often subject to competing employment offers. Furthermore, a portion of Mitel’s compensation to its key employees is in the form of stock option grants and, as a consequence, a depression in Mitel’s share price or the continued lack of a public market for such shares could make it difficult for Mitel to retain employees and recruit additional qualified personnel. Mitel currently does not maintain corporate life insurance policies on the lives of its directors or key employees. Mitel’s inability to effectively manage significant growth in the number of its employees or the scope of its operations could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business and future success. Should Mitel experience a need for significant growth in the number of its employees and the scope of its operations, it may place a significant strain on Mitel’s management and operations, particularly with respect to: • Broadening its management team; • Attracting and retaining skilled employees; 7 Table of Contents • Developing and managing a larger, more complex international organization; • Expanding Mitel’s treasury and accounting functions and information systems to meet the demands imposed by Mitel’s growth; and • Strengthening Mitel’s financial and management controls in a manner appropriate for a larger enterprise. If Mitel fails to modify its products to comply with new regulatory requirements, or to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for its products, sales of existing and future Mitel products could be adversely effected. The sale of Mitel’s products is affected by governmental regulatory policies, the imposition of tariffs and taxation of communications services. These policies and activities are under continuous review and are subject to change. Regulations may prohibit sales of products that fail to comply with these regulations, increase industry costs of R&D or otherwise subject Mitel to liability with respect to the sale of its products until Mitel makes appropriate modifications. Likewise, potential changes to the current regulatory framework may cause competitive harm to Mitel. There can be no assurance that Mitel will be successful in modifying its products, or in obtaining or maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for its products, and its failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see Part I, Item 4.B “Business Overview” to this annual report for further information concerning government regulations. Mitel’s business may suffer if the Company’s strategic alliances are not successful. Mitel has entered into a number of strategic alliances with suppliers and developers to facilitate compatibility of the Company’s products, encourage adoption of industry standards or to offer complementary product or service offerings to meet customer needs. In some cases, companies compete against Mitel in some of its business areas. If a member of a strategic alliance fails to perform its obligations, if the relationship fails to develop as expected or if the relationship is terminated, Mitel could experience delays in product availability or impairment of the Company’s relationships with its customers. Mitel’s success is dependent on its intellectual property. The inability of, or any failure by, Mitel to protect its intellectual property could seriously harm Mitel’s ability to compete and its financial success. Mitel’s success depends on the intellectual property in the products and services that it develops and sells. See Part I, Item 4.B “Business Overview” to this annual report for further details concerning Mitel’s intellectual property. Mitel relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary technology. There can be no assurance that Mitel’s present protective measures will be enforceable or adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology or independent third-party development of the same or similar technology. Many foreign jurisdictions offer less protection of intellectual property rights than Canada or the United States, and there can be no assurance that the protection provided to Mitel’s proprietary technology by the laws of Canada or the United States or foreign jurisdictions will be sufficient to protect such technology. Preventing the unauthorized use of such proprietary technology may be difficult in part because it may be difficult to discover such use. Stopping unauthorized use of such proprietary technology may be difficult, time-consuming and costly. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce Mitel’s intellectual property rights, to protect Mitel’s trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial cost and diversion of management resources, and have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Mitel’s business may be harmed if it is found to have infringed intellectual rights of third parties. As is common in the industry, Mitel has in the past been, and may in the future be, notified of claims that the products or services offered and sold by Mitel are subject to patents or other proprietary rights of third 8 Table of Contents parties, including competitors and patent holding companies or consortiums. For example, certain claims have been asserted against end users within the industry and demands for the payment of licensing fees have been made or end users of communications systems have otherwise been threatened with litigation over claims of alleged infringement. Mitel generally agrees to indemnify and defend such customers to the extent a claim for infringement is brought against its customers with respect to Mitel’s products. There can be no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against Mitel or its customers. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time consuming to evaluate and defend, and could result in increased costs, potential shipment delays and stoppages, or lengthy and complex license negotiations. While Mitel is currently not defending itself against any material intellectual property lawsuit (e.g. for direct, contributory or inducing infringement whether solely Mitel’s technology or in combination with other technology), there can be no assurance that such will not arise against it or its customers. Moreover, license agreements with third parties may not include all intellectual property rights that may be issued to or owned by the licensors and thus future disputes with these parties are possible and there can be no assurance that current or future negotiations with third parties to establish license or cross license arrangements, or to renew existing licenses, will result in Mitel obtaining or renewing a license on satisfactory terms or at all. In the event an intellectual property dispute is not settled through a license, or any existing license is not renewed, litigation could result. Any litigation relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not determined in Mitel’s favor or settled by it, could at a minimum be costly and would divert the attention and efforts of management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in such litigation or proceeding could prevent Mitel from making, using or selling certain of its products and subject Mitel to damage assessments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on Mitel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations are increasing Mitel’s costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) that became law in July 2002 has and will require changes in some of Mitel’s corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. SOX has also required the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to promulgate new rules on a variety of subjects. These developments, particularly SOX Section 404, are increasing Mitel’s legal and financial compliance costs. In addition, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to comply with its obligations under section 404 of SOX on time or otherwise in accordance with regulatory requirements. Dr. Terence H. Matthews is a significant shareholder of Mitel and he has the potential to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by shareholders of the Company. Dr. Terence H. Matthews (“Dr. Matthews”) is a significant shareholder of the Company, beneficially owning 54% of the common shares. Dr. Matthews is also the Chairman of the Board of Mitel. Dr. Matthews, given the extent of his ownership position, has the potential to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to the articles of incorporation of the Company, and significant corporate transactions. Please see Part I, Item 7.A “Major Shareholders” of this annual report for further information concerning major shareholders of the Company. Please also see Part I, Item 10.C “Material Contracts” to this annual report for further information concerning the Shareholders Agreement. There are significant restrictions on the resale of Mitel’s securities and there can be no assurance as to when such restrictions will cease to apply, if ever. There is presently no public market through which Mitel’s securities may be sold or resold. Mitel’s securities are not listed for trading on any stock exchange, and there is no guarantee that any such listing will be completed in the future. Most of Mitel’s securities have not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) or the securities laws of any of the states of the United States and are “restricted securities” as defined under the rules of the Securities Act, which may not be transferred to a U.S. person except pursuant to registration under the Securities Act, or pursuant to an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Canadian provincial securities laws also 9 Table of Contents restrict the transfer of securities of Mitel, unless an exemption from the prospectus requirements is available in respect of such transfer, at least until the time Mitel becomes a reporting issuer in a province of Canada. In addition, Mitel’s articles currently contain restrictions on the transfer of common shares of the Company. Please see Part I, Item 10.B “Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation” to this annual report for a more detailed description of these transfer restrictions. Investors may be unable to liquidate an investment in Mitel’s securities, whether or not a listing is subsequently affected. An investor should not purchase securities in Mitel unless such investor is able to endure lack of liquidity and/or withstand a total loss of his or her investment. 