Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about the business and future financial results of the PBM and specialty pharmacy industries, and other legal, regulatory and economic developments. We use words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “plans,” “expects,” “projects,” “future,” “intends,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue” and similar expressions to identify these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition in the PBM, specialty pharmacy and the broader health care industry is intense and could impair our ability to attract and retain clients. Competition among providers of PBM services is intense. We compete with a wide variety of market participants, including national, regional and local PBMs, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, insurance companies, managed care organizations, large retail chains, large retail stores with in-store pharmacy operations and Internet pharmacies. Our competitors include many profitable and well-established companies that have significant financial, marketing and other resources. Some of our specialty pharmacy and clinical service offerings compete with similar services provided by smaller companies in niche markets. Our main competitors include Aetna Inc., CIGNA Corporation, CVS Caremark Corporation, Express Scripts, Inc., Humana Inc., UnitedHealth Group Incorporated (“United Health Group”), Walgreen Co., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and WellPoint Health Networks Inc. We compete based on innovation and service, as well as on price. To attract new clients and retain existing clients, we must continually develop new products and services to assist clients in managing their pharmacy benefit programs. There is no guarantee that the investments that we make will result in innovative products and services which are attractive to clients. Moreover, although we need to continue to expend significant resources to develop or acquire new products and services in the future, we may not be able to do so. We cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to market our PBM services to clients successfully at our current levels of profitability. Consolidation within the markets we serve, as well as the acquisition of any of our competitors by larger companies, may lead to increased competition. Failure to retain key clients and their members, either as a result of economic conditions, increased competition or other factors, could result in significantly decreased revenues and could harm our profitability. Our largest client, UnitedHealth Group, represented approximately $11,000 million, or 21%, of our net revenues during 2008. The UnitedHealth Group account has much lower mail-order penetration and, because of its size, steeper pricing than the average client, and consequently generates lower profitability than typical client accounts. In April 2008, we announced a new agreement with UnitedHealth Group to provide pharmacy benefit services through December 31, 2012. Although none of our other clients individually represented more than 10% of our net revenues in 2008, our top 10 clients as of December 27, 2008, including UnitedHealth Group, represented approximately 45% of our net revenues during 2008. Additionally, a significant amount of our members represent the retiree population and are an important contributor to our profitability. If several of our large clients terminate, cancel or do not renew their agreements with us or stop contracting with us for some of the services we provide because they accept a competing proposal or because 20 Table of Contents they are involved in a merger or acquisition, and we are not successful in generating new sales with comparable operating margins to replace the lost business, our revenues and results of operations could suffer. In addition, although we believe that our current liquidity and prospects for increasing our cash flows from operations limit the effects on our business from the weak capital and credit markets, our business is not immune from the general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown and geopolitical events. Our revenues and results of operations could suffer, for example, if employers determine to drop health care coverage for some or all of their employees, including retirees, as a result of weakness in the economy and the rising cost of premiums. If we do not continue to earn and retain purchase discounts and rebates from manufacturers at current levels, our gross margins may decline. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers or wholesalers that provide us with purchase discounts on drugs dispensed from our mail-order pharmacies and rebates on brand-name prescription drugs dispensed through mail order and retail. These discounts and rebates are generally passed on to clients in the form of steeper price discounts and rebate pass-backs. Manufacturer rebates often depend on our ability to meet contractual market share or other requirements. Competitive pressures in the PBM industry have also caused us and many other PBMs to share with clients a larger portion of the rebates received from pharmaceutical manufacturers and to increase the discounts offered to clients. Changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or in their interpretation by courts and agencies or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as some of the formulary and other services we provide to pharmaceutical manufacturers, could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. Our acquisition activity has increased recently and if we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses into ours, our operating results may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, the integration of these businesses has required, and will likely continue to require, significant resources and management attention. In April 2008, we acquired a majority interest in Europa Apotheek Venlo B.V. (“Europa Apotheek”), a privately held company based in the Netherlands that provides clinical health care and mail-order pharmacy services in Germany and the Netherlands. In October 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of PolyMedica Corporation (“PolyMedica”) and in November 2007, we acquired Critical Care Systems, Inc. (“Critical Care”). PolyMedica is a leading provider of diabetes care through its Liberty brand, including blood glucose testing supplies, prescriptions and related services. Critical Care is one of the nation’s largest providers of specialty infusion services for home-based and ambulatory settings. In order to realize the intended benefits of these acquisitions, or any acquisition we make in the future, we must effectively integrate these businesses and any future acquired business into ours. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours. If we fail to successfully integrate these acquisitions or if they fail to perform as we anticipated, our existing businesses and our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If the due diligence of the operations of these acquired businesses performed by us or by third parties on our behalf were inadequate or flawed, or if we later discover unforeseen financial or business liabilities, the acquired businesses may not perform as expected. Operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than we anticipated. Finally, difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products could result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. International operations are also subject to additional risks, which could include variation in local economies, export and import restrictions, currency fluctuations, trade barriers, the burden of complying with a variety of international laws and political and economic instability. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with complex and evolving laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally, we could suffer penalties, or be required to pay substantial damages or make significant changes to our operations. We are subject to numerous federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with existing or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our mail-order pharmacies and our ability to participate in federal and state health care programs. As a consequence of the severe penalties we could face, we must devote significant operational and managerial resources to complying with these laws and regulations. Although we believe that we are substantially compliant with all existing statutes and regulations applicable to our business, different interpretations and enforcement policies of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make significant changes to our operations. In addition, we cannot predict the impact of future legislation and regulatory changes on our business or ensure that we will be able to obtain or maintain the regulatory approvals required to operate our business. In addition, our international business is also susceptible to a changing political and regulatory landscape. Changes in laws or interpretations, for example, banning mail-order delivery in Germany, would severely impair our ability to serve our customers there and adversely impact the financial condition, liquidity and operating results of our European business. Government efforts to reduce health care costs and alter health care financing practices could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced profitability. During the past several years, the U.S. health care industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control health care costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Congress frequently considers proposals to reform the U.S. health care system. These proposals may increase governmental involvement in health care and PBM services and may otherwise change the way our clients conduct business. Health care organizations may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying the purchase of our PBM services, and manufacturers may react by reducing rebates or reducing supplies of certain products. These proposals could lead to a decreased demand for our services or to reduced rebates from manufacturers. In addition, both Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider legislation to increase governmental regulation of managed care plans and decrease reimbursement of Medicare managed care plans. Some of these initiatives would, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary and give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice when they have been denied care. The scope of the managed care reform proposals under consideration by Congress and state legislatures and enacted by states to date vary greatly, and we cannot predict the extent of future legislation. However, these initiatives could limit our business practices and impair our ability to serve our clients. Failure in continued execution of our Medicare Part D prescription drug program, and the integration of that program into a more comprehensive retiree strategy, could adversely impact our business and financial results. Our agreements with CMS, as well as applicable Medicare Part D regulations and federal and state laws, impose numerous requirements on us. As a CMS-approved Prescription Drug Program, our policies and practices associated with executing the program are subject to audit, and if material contractual or regulatory non-compliance was to be identified, applicable sanctions and/or monetary penalties, including suspension of enrollment and marketing, may be imposed. In time, the Medicare Part D prescription benefit could have the effect of rendering existing group pharmacy benefit plans less valuable to our clients and beneficiaries and reduce the total market for group PBM services. In addition, some of our clients could decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. If this occurs, the adverse effects of the Medicare Part D benefit may 22 Table of Contents outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the new benefit. We are not in a position to accurately predict the long-term impact of Medicare Part D on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The growth of our Medicare Part D and overall retiree business is an important component of our business strategy and, accordingly, we have made substantial investments in the service personnel and technology necessary to administer that business. Any failure to achieve growth in our Medicare Part D business may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. PBMs could be subject to claims under ERISA if they are found to be a fiduciary of a health benefit plan governed by ERISA. PBMs typically provide services to corporations and other sponsors of health benefit plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). ERISA regulates employee pension benefit plans and employee welfare benefit plans, including health and medical plans. The U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”), which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by a PBM where the PBM had not agreed to accept fiduciary responsibility. We are party to several lawsuits that claim we are a fiduciary under ERISA. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If a court were to determine, in litigation brought by a private party or in a proceeding arising out of a position taken by the DOL, that we were a fiduciary in connection with services for which we had not agreed to accept fiduciary responsibility, we could potentially be subject to claims for breaching fiduciary duties and/or entering into certain “prohibited transactions.” Pending litigation could adversely impact our business practices and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. We are party to various legal proceedings and are subject to litigation risks. The significant legal proceedings to which Medco is a party are described in detail in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses in each of the matters described therein, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations in any particular period. We are subject to corporate integrity agreements and noncompliance may impede our ability to conduct business with the federal government. As part of a civil settlement with the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and other federal government agencies, in October 2006, Medco entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the United States Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management Office of Inspector General. In November 2004, prior to our ownership, PolyMedica entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement as part of a civil settlement with the OIG. Failure to comply with the obligations of these corporate integrity agreements could result in debarment from participation in certain federal business arrangements, financial penalties and damage to Medco’s reputation. New legislative or regulatory initiatives that restrict or prohibit the PBM industry’s ability to use patient identifiable medical information could limit our ability to use information that is critical to the operation of our business. Many of our products and services rely on our ability to use patient identifiable information in various ways. In addition to electronically reviewing hundreds of millions of prescriptions each year, we collect and process confidential information through many of our programs and alliances, including RationalMed and point-of-care initiatives. There is currently substantial regulation at the federal and state levels addressing the use and disclosure of patient identifiable medical and other information. In February 2009, the President 23 Table of Contents signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (PL 111-16), which adds additional requirements under the HIPAA privacy and security rules. Sanctions for failing to comply with standards issued pursuant to state or federal statutes or regulations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation,” above. These and future regulations and legislation that severely restrict or prohibit our use of patient identifiable medical and other information could limit our ability to use information that is critical to the operation of our business. If we violate a patient’s privacy or are found to have violated any state or federal statute or regulation with regard to the confidentiality, dissemination or use of patient medical information, we could be liable for significant damages, fines or penalties. Our Specialty Pharmacy business is highly dependent on our relationships with a limited number of biopharmaceutical suppliers and the loss of any of these relationships could significantly impact our ability to sustain or improve our financial performance. We derive a substantial percentage of our Specialty Pharmacy segment revenue and profitability from our relationships with Abbott Laboratories, Inc.; Actelion Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.; Amgen, Inc.; Baxter Healthcare Corporation; Biogen Idec, Inc., Genentech, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Inc.; Novartis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd.; and United Therapeutics, Inc. Our agreements with these suppliers may be short-term and cancelable by either party without cause on 30 to 365 days prior notice. These agreements may limit our ability to provide services related to competing drugs, during the term of the agreement and allow the supplier to distribute through channels other than us. Further, certain of these agreements provide that pricing and other terms of these relationships be periodically adjusted for changing market conditions or required service levels. Any termination or modification to any of these relationships could have an adverse effect on a portion of our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to grow our Specialty Pharmacy business could be limited if we do not expand our existing base of drugs or if we lose patients. Our Specialty Pharmacy segment focuses on a limited number of complex and expensive drugs that serve small patient populations. Due to the limited patient populations that use the drugs that our Specialty Pharmacy business handles, our future growth is dependent on expanding our base of drugs. Further, a loss of patient base or reduction in demand for any reason of the drugs we currently handle could have a material adverse effect on a significant portion of our Specialty Pharmacy business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Specialty Pharmacy business, certain revenues from diabetes testing supplies and our Medicare Part D offerings expose us to increased credit risk. A portion of our Specialty Pharmacy business is funded through medical benefit coverage, the majority of which is provided by private insurers, as well as reimbursement by government agencies. These Specialty Pharmacy claims are generally for very high-priced medicines, and collection of payments from insurance companies, patients and other payors generally takes substantially longer than for those claims administered through a PBM benefit. Because of the high cost of these claims, and the nature of the medical benefit coverage determination process, these accounts receivable are characterized by higher risk in collecting the full amounts due. Revenues from the sale of diabetes testing supplies under the Liberty brand depend on the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. The government’s Medicare regulations are complex and as a result, the collection process is time consuming and typically involves the submission of claims to multiple payors whose payment of claims may be contingent upon the payment of another payor. Because of the coordination with multiple payors and the complexity in determining reimbursable amounts, these accounts receivable have higher risk in collecting the full amounts due. Our Medicare Part D product offerings require premium payments from members for the ongoing benefit, as well as amounts due from CMS. As a result of the demographics of the consumers covered under these 24 Table of Contents programs and the complexity of the calculations for amounts due from CMS, these accounts receivable are subject to realization risk in excess of what is experienced in the core PBM business. Additionally, we may be subject to increased credit risk associated with state and local government agencies that are experiencing increased fiscal challenges. As a result of these aforementioned risks, we may be required to record bad debt expenses that may impact our results of operations and liquidity. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance. Contracts in the prescription drug industry generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include average wholesale price, which is referred to as “AWP,” average selling price, which is referred to as “ASP,” and wholesale acquisition cost, which is referred to as “WAC.” Most of Medco’s PBM client contracts currently utilize the AWP standard. Recent events have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated, or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for establishing prices within the industry. Specifically, in the proposed settlement in the case of New England Carpenters Health Benefits Fund, et al. v. First DataBank, et al., a civil class action case brought against McKesson Corporation and First DataBank (“FDB”), which is one of several companies that report data on prescription drug prices, FDB had agreed to reduce the reported AWP of certain drugs by four percent at a future time as contemplated by the settlement. FDB has also announced that if the settlement is implemented, it will discontinue publishing its AWP price information within two years. In December 2008, the court held a hearing to determine whether to approve the settlement but did not issue any ruling. Over 90% of Medco’s client contracts contain terms that Medco believes will enable it to mitigate any adverse effects of this kind of settlement and FDB’s related action. Legislation may lead to changes in the pricing for Medicare and Medicaid programs. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation — Legislation and Regulation Affecting Drug Prices and Potentially Affecting the Market for Prescription Benefit Plans and Reimbursement for Durable Medical Equipment,” above. At least one Medicaid program has adopted, and other Medicaid programs, some states and some commercial payors may adopt, those aspects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (P.L. 108-173) (the “Act”) that either result in or appear to result in price reductions for drugs covered by such programs. Adoption of ASP in lieu of AWP as the measure for determining reimbursement by state Medicaid programs for the drugs sold in our Specialty Pharmacy business could materially reduce the revenue and gross margins of this business. The terms and covenants relating to our existing indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and our liquidity. Like other companies that incur debt, we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, such as the insufficiency of cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. Our credit facilities, accounts receivable financing facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including a maximum total debt-to-EBITDA ratio. Our continued ability to borrow under our credit facilities and accounts receivable financing facility is subject to our compliance with such financial and other covenants. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, we would be in default under the credit facilities, accounts receivable financing facility and/or indentures, and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms. See Note 7, “Debt,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, as of December 27, 2008, of our total outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.6 billion, $2.8 billion is impacted by variable interest rates. Increases in interest rates on variable rate indebtedness would increase our interest expense and could adversely affect our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if the safety risk profiles of drugs increase or if drugs are withdrawn from the market, including as a result of manufacturing issues, or if prescription drugs transition to over-the-counter products. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our mail-order pharmacies and through a network of retail pharmacies, which are the basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles or manufacturing issues of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced global consumer demand for such drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers or transition to over-the-counter products. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance. Our professional liability insurance policies are expected to cover individual claims of up to $85 million. Because of the difficulty in obtaining commercial insurance coverage, as well as its high cost, our retained liability has been established at levels that require certain self-insurance reserves to cover potential claims. We currently process any claims that are included in self-insured retention levels through a captive insurance company. A successful professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that most of the claims described in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies — Legal Proceedings,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are unlikely to be covered by insurance. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured pharmacy operation and technology infrastructure and failure to execute could adversely impact our business. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data and we must maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operations. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. Currently, our automated pharmacies in Willingboro, New Jersey and Las Vegas, Nevada together dispense over 90% of our mail-order prescriptions. Our data center, located in Fair Lawn, New Jersey, provides primary support for all applications and systems required for our business operations, including our integrated prescription claims processing, billing, communications and mail-order systems. These facilities depend on local infrastructure and on the uninterrupted operation of our computerized dispensing systems and our electronic data processing systems. Significant disruptions at any of these facilities due to failure of our technology or any other failure or disruption to these systems or to the infrastructure due to fire, electrical outage, natural disaster, acts of terrorism or malice or some other catastrophic event could, temporarily or indefinitely, significantly reduce, or partially or totally eliminate, our ability to process and dispense prescriptions and provide products and services to our clients and members. We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded intangible assets or goodwill are impaired, or if we shorten intangible asset useful lives. We have over $2.6 billion of recorded intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 27, 2008. For our PBM segment, our intangible assets primarily represent the value of client relationships that was recorded upon our acquisition in 1993 by Merck & Co., Inc., and to a lesser extent, our 26 Table of Contents acquisition of PolyMedica in 2007. For our Specialty Pharmacy segment, we have intangible assets recorded primarily from our acquisition of Accredo Health, Incorporated (“Accredo”) in 2005. Under current accounting rules, intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. These assets may become impaired with the loss of significant clients or biopharmaceutical manufacturer contracts, or when other changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For our intangible assets, if the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the undiscounted pre-tax expected future cash flows from the lowest appropriate asset grouping, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statement of income in the amount the carrying value of these assets exceeds the discounted expected future cash flows. In addition, while our intangible assets may not be impaired, the useful lives are subject to continual assessment. This assessment may result in a reduction of the remaining weighted average useful life of these assets, resulting in potentially significant increases to non-cash amortization expense that is charged to our consolidated statement of income, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. We also have recorded goodwill of $6.3 billion on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 27, 2008. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually for each of our segments’ reporting units. This assessment includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value of the assets assigned to that reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit were to exceed our estimate of fair value of the reporting unit, we would then be required to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities within the reporting unit to ascertain the fair value of goodwill. If we determine that the fair value is less than our book value, we could be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statement of income, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Changes in reimbursement rates, including competitive bidding for durable medical equipment suppliers, could negatively affect our Accredo and PolyMedica revenues and profits. The majority of our current Accredo and PolyMedica revenues are tied to the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. Any reduction in Medicare or other government program or private plan reimbursements currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. Without a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products, our profits would also be reduced. Additionally, our profits could be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare or other government program reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts, and due to potential budget limitations being experienced by many states, we could experience reductions in our Medicaid reimbursement for certain drugs dispensed by our specialty pharmacies under our Accredo brand. Specifically in regards to our diabetes testing supplies revenues and profits under our Liberty brand, the Act provides for a phased-in program for competitive bidding of certain durable medical equipment items. Round 1 of the program was scheduled to be conducted in 10 Competitive Bid Areas (“CBAs”), and the mail-order diabetes testing supply product category was included in Round 1 of the program. Congress temporarily delayed Round 1 for all product categories including mail-order diabetes testing supplies, in the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (“MIPPA”) enacted in July 2008. To pay for the delay, MIPPA also decreased reimbursement for the product categories, including mail-order diabetes testing supplies by 9.5% starting January 1, 2009 and also provides for no annual payment update for 2009. The bidding process for a new Round 1 is expected to restart in 2009. In January 2009, CMS published a regulation implementing the provisions of MIPPA regarding competitive bidding. CMS has delayed the effective date of this regulation from February 17, 2009 to April 18, 2009 for review by the new Administration. A national program for competitive bidding of certain durable medical equipment items, which may include mail-order diabetes testing supplies, is contemplated by the law, but not before 2011. The competitive bidding program could cause our operating results to be negatively affected through a combination of lower reimbursement rates for competitively bid items and/or our failure to secure status as a contracted supplier. The Act provided CMS additional authority, beginning in 2009, to use pricing information it gathers during the initial competitive bidding phases for the purposes of establishing reimbursement rates in geographic areas not subject to competitive bidding. MIPPA now requires CMS to issue further guidance on whether and then how it intends to use this authority through the formal rule-making process, and delays the earliest implementation date to 2011. Our operating results could be negatively affected if CMS uses this 27 Table of Contents authority to impose lower reimbursement rates in geographic areas that would otherwise have been excluded from the impact of competitive bidding. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws could delay or deter a change in control and make it more difficult to remove incumbent officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and various provisions of the DGCL may make it more difficult to effect a change of control of our company or remove incumbent officers and directors. The existence of these provisions may adversely affect the price of our common stock, discourage third parties from making a bid to acquire our company or reduce any premium paid to our shareholders for their common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock and to attach special rights and preferences to this preferred stock. The issuance of this preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes as nearly equal in size as possible with staggered three-year terms. This classification of our Board of Directors could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company or of discouraging a third party from acquiring control of our company because it will generally make it more difficult for shareholders to replace a majority of the directors. On May 24, 2007, our shareholders approved a proposal to amend the Company’s certificate of incorporation to de-stagger our Board of Directors and provide for the phase-in of the annual election of directors over a three-year period, and therefore all directors will be elected annually beginning at our annual meeting in 2010. In addition, it is currently not possible to remove a director except for cause (other than directors elected for one-year terms, who can be removed without cause) and then only by a vote of holders of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of stock. Additionally, as a result of our ownership of insurance companies, a third party attempting to effect a change of control of our company may be required to obtain approval from the applicable state insurance regulatory officials. The need for this approval may discourage third parties from making a bid for our company or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 