Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following material risk factors associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. An investment in Gastar is subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of our common shares will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in Gastar may decrease, resulting in a loss. Risks Related to Our Business Future economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets may materially adversely impact our operating results. The U.S. and other world economies are slowly recovering from a recession, which began in 2008 and has extended into 2010. Growth has resumed, but is modest. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in recent years. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand growth for our natural gas production and crude oil, as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile and further declines in natural gas and oil prices will continue to significantly and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business greatly depends on market prices of natural gas and oil. The higher market prices are, the more likely it is that we will be financially successful. On the other hand, declines in natural gas or oil prices may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, profitability and liquidity. Lower prices also may reduce the amount of natural gas or oil that we can produce economically. Natural gas and oil commodity prices are set by broad market forces. Historically, the natural gas and oil markets have been and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • The domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; • Overall economic conditions; • Weather conditions; • Political conditions in the Middle East and other oil producing regions, such as Venezuela; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • The level of consumer product demand; and • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Our success is influenced by natural gas prices in the specific areas where we operate, and these prices may be lower than prices at major markets. Regional natural gas prices may move independent of broad industry price trends. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional natural gas prices regardless 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of Henry Hub or other major market pricing. During 2009, approximately 86% of our production was priced based on the Katy Hub basis point, and 13% was priced on the Colorado Interstate Gas (“CIG”) basis point. In 2007, natural gas prices based on CIG were extremely volatile, and spot sales of natural gas in the region traded at prices substantially below historic levels, when compared to prices in other primary natural gas sales points in the country. This was attributed primarily to limitations in available pipeline capacity for natural gas deliveries out of the Rocky Mountain area. While this volatility has been alleviated partially by completion of a major pipeline system in January 2008, CIG natural gas prices continue to trade approximately 5% less than Henry Hub prices and may decline further if supplies of natural gas in the Rocky Mountains continue to increase. Our West Virginia natural gas production is priced using the Columbia Gas Appalachia Pool. At December 31, 2009, the Henry Hub price was $5.79 per MMBtu, compared to our key basis point pricing of $5.72 per MMBtu at the Katy Hub, $5.54 per MMBtu for CIG and $5.95 per MMBtu for the Columbia Gas Appalachia Pool. Low natural gas prices in any or all of the areas where we operate would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Natural gas and oil reserves are depleting assets, and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our future natural gas and oil production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Production from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities and/or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. Further, we may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Exploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful. Our future success will largely depend on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • Unexpected drilling conditions; • Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage; • Pressure or irregularities in formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions; • Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future; and • Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. We use available seismic data to assist in the location of potential drilling sites. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and other visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would have a material adverse affect our financial condition, future cash flows and results of operations. In addition, using seismic data and other advanced technologies involves substantial upfront costs and is more expensive than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these expenditures. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have incurred significant net losses since our inception and may incur additional significant net losses in the future. With the exception of the one-time sale of our Australian properties in 2009, we have not been profitable since we started our business. Excluding after tax gains on the sale of assets, we incurred net losses of $92.4 million, $5.4 million and $69.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our capital has been employed in an increasingly expanding natural gas and oil exploration and development program, with the focus on finding significant natural gas and oil reserves and producing from them over the long-term rather than focusing on achieving immediate net income. The uncertainties described in this “Item 1A—Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K may impede our ability to ultimately find, develop and exploit natural gas and oil reserves. Our failure to achieve profitability in the future could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and continue our exploration and development program. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims. The cost of our defending these lawsuits and any future lawsuits, and any resulting judgments, could be significant and could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. We are subject to various significant legal proceedings and claims arising outside of the normal course of business. These include, but are not limited to, eight civil lawsuits in which we have been named as a co-defendant arising from investor claims made in connection with brood mare leasing programs operated by ClassicStar, L.L.C. (“ClassicStar”), a company indirectly owned by GeoStar Corporation (“Geostar”), which in turn is owned by some of our former executive officers and directors and previously was our largest shareholder. In March 2010, an individual shareholder of GeoStar, who prior to April 2005 served as a director and executive officer of the Company, was charged by the United States Attorney for the District of Oregon with conspiracy to defraud the Federal government by impairing or impeding the Internal Revenue Service in the collection of incomes taxes from participants in the ClassicStar mare leasing programs. The information filed by the U.S. Attorney contains allegations that the ClassicStar mare leasing programs were used to generate fraudulent tax deductions. In those civil suits in which the Company has been named as a co-defendant, many of the plaintiffs allege that Geostar or its shareholders directly or indirectly made investments in the Company using funds fraudulently obtained from participants in the ClassicStar brood mare programs, or that GeoStar and its shareholders used funds obtained from such mare program participants to acquire or develop properties that were later sold to the Company. The plaintiffs in these proceedings seek to attribute the actions of GeoStar and these individuals to the Company. For more information on these and other significant currently outstanding legal proceedings, see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation”, to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of these legal proceedings, and additional claims may arise. We are vigorously defending the Company in these matters. This litigation, regardless of outcome or merit, however, can result in substantial costs and diversion of resources from our business. These costs would be reflected in terms of dollar outlay as well as the amount of time, attention and other resources that our management would have to appropriate to the defense of such claims. Considerable legal, accounting and other professional services expenses related to these matters have been incurred to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or the liability that could potentially result, continuing defense costs and any adverse outcome could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to drilling an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. It does happen, from time-to-time, that the examination made by the title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently are involved in a title litigation matter in East Texas. See Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation”. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating natural gas and oil reserves and their values, many of which are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas or oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable natural gas or oil reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend on many variables and assumptions, such as: • Historical natural gas or oil production from that area, compared with production from other producing areas; • Assumptions concerning the effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • Assumptions concerning future prices; • Assumptions concerning future operating costs; • Assumptions concerning severance and excise taxes; and • Assumptions concerning development costs and workover and remedial costs. Any of these variables or assumptions could vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas or oil attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of those reserves based on risk recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineer at different times, may vary substantially. Because of this, our reserve estimates may materially change at any time. You should not consider the present values of estimated future net cash flows referred to in this Form 10-K to be the current market value of the estimated reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month prices and costs in effect when the estimate is made. Current or actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • The amount and timing of actual production; • Supply and demand for natural gas or oil; • Actual prices received for natural gas in the future being different than those used in the estimate; • Curtailments or increases in consumption of natural gas or oil; • Changes in governmental regulations or taxation; and • The timing of both production and expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas or oil properties. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In this Form 10-K, the net present value of estimated future net revenues at December 31, 2009 is calculated using the 12-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price and a 10% discount rate. This price and rate are not necessarily the most appropriate price or discount factor based on prices and interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Our estimates of proved reserves have been prepared under new SEC rules, which went into effect for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and may make comparisons to prior periods difficult and could limit our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves in the future. This Form 10-K presents estimates of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, which have been prepared and presented under new SEC rules. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, and require SEC reporting companies to prepare their reserves estimates using revised reserve definitions and revised pricing based on 12-month unweighted first-day-of-the-month average pricing. The previous rules required that reserve estimates be calculated using year-end pricing. Under the new rules the pricing that was used for estimates of our reserves as of December 31, 2009 was based on an unweighted average 12-month West Texas Intermediate posted price of $57.65 per Bbl for oil and a Henry Hub spot price of $3.87 per MMBtu for natural gas, as compared to $41.00 per Bbl for oil and $5.71 per MMBtu for natural gas as of December 31, 2008. As a result of these changes, direct comparisons to our previously-reported reserves amounts may be more difficult. Another impact of the new SEC rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program, particularly as we develop our acreage in the Hilltop area in East Texas and the Marcellus Shale in West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Moreover, we may be required to write down our proved undeveloped reserves if we do not drill and develop those reserves within the required five-year timeframe. The SEC has not reviewed our or any reporting company’s reserve estimates under the new rules and has released only limited interpretive guidance regarding reporting of reserve estimates under the new rules and may not issue further interpretive guidance on the new rules. Accordingly, while the estimates of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 included in this Form 10-K have been prepared based on what we and our independent reserve engineers believe to be reasonable interpretations of the new SEC rules, those estimates could differ materially from any estimates we might prepare applying more specific SEC interpretive guidance. The imprecise nature of estimating proved natural gas and oil reserves, future downward revisions of proved reserves and increased drilling expenditures without current additions to proved reserves may lead to write downs in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties. We may experience write downs of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties in the future if the present value of our proved natural gas and oil reserves is lower than our remaining unamortized capitalized costs. Factors that can contribute to write downs include lower natural gas and oil prices, downward revisions in estimated proved natural gas and oil reserve quantities, differences in timing between the incurrence of significant costs of exploration or development activities and the recognition of significant proved reserves resulting from such activities and unsuccessful drilling activities. Approximately 41% of our proved reserves are classified as proved developed non-producing or proved undeveloped and may ultimately prove to be less than estimated. At December 31, 2009, approximately 41% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing or proved undeveloped. It will take substantial capital to recomplete or drill our non-producing and undeveloped locations. Our estimate of proved reserves at December 31, 2009 assumes that we will spend 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements significant development capital expenditures to develop these reserves, including an estimated $11.4 million and $6.7 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Further, our drilling efforts may be delayed or unsuccessful, and actual reserves may prove to be less than current reserve estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Our inability to meet a financial covenant contained in our bank revolving credit facility may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to certain financial covenants we are required to maintain under our revolving credit facility related to our working capital, cash flow and interest coverage ratio. If we breach a financial covenant and we are unable to cure such violation or obtain waivers from our lenders under the revolving credit facility within the applicable cure periods, such violation will constitute an event of default under the revolving credit facility, and our lenders could terminate any commitments they have to make available further funds, accelerate the due dates for the payments of all outstanding indebtedness and exercise their remedies as a secured creditor with respect to the collateral securing the revolving credit facility, which is substantially all of our natural gas and oil properties. If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. We use hedges to mitigate our natural gas price risk with counterparties. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. We cannot provide assurance that our counterparties will honor their obligations now or in the future. A counterparty’s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments required under terms of derivative instruments with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At the date of filing of this Form 10-K, our only counterparties were BP Corporation North America, Bank of Montreal and J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. Our exploration and production interests and operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the handling and discharge of substances into the environment. These existing laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our interests and operations including: • Air and water discharge permits for drilling and production operations; • Drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility assurances; • Reports concerning operations; • Spacing of wells; • Access to properties, particularly in the Powder River Basin; • Taxation; and • Other regulatory controls on operating activities. In addition, regulatory agencies have from time to time imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the flow rate of wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of natural gas and oil. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to our interests and operations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting future operations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Legal requirements are sometimes unclear or subject to reinterpretation and may be frequently changed in response to economic or political conditions. As a result, it is hard to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their affect on our interests and operations. In addition, existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. The production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and oil, by-products of natural gas and oil and other substances produced or used in connection with natural gas and oil production operations are regulated by laws and regulations focused on the protection of human health and the environment. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct under certain of these laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our storage facilities or through which our pipeline systems pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. Consequently, the discharge or release of natural gas, oil or other substances into the air, soil or water, even by predecessor operators, could subject us to liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury, property and natural resource damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our natural gas and oil sales and our related hedging activities, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of natural gas and oil and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements To the extent that we enter into transportation contracts with natural gas pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of such capacity. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations and policies, or with an interstate pipeline’s tariff, could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases”, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, in October 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including sources emitting more than 25,000 tons of GHGs on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009”, also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation”, or ACESA. The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of GHGs in the United States. ACESA would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under ACESA, most sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs, and President Obama has indicated that he supports legislation to control and reduce emissions of GHGs through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and gas we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the power of the CFTC to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The CFTC is considering whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities, such as crude oil, natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. Separately, the House of Representatives adopted financial regulatory reform 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements legislation on December 11, 2009, that among other things would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives marketplace. This legislation would subject swap dealers and “major swap participants” to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants, and would provide the CFTC with authority to impose position limits in the OTC derivatives markets. A major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the U.S. banking system or financial markets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the SDWA to repeal an exemption in the SDWA for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources and to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production, primarily in shale formations. Sponsors of the legislation have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, various state and local governments are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas. If adopted, these regulatory initiatives and legislation could establish additional levels of regulation and other restrictions that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. The process of drilling for and producing natural gas and oil involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and we may not have enough insurance to cover these risks adequately. The natural gas and oil business involves many operating hazards, such as: • Well blowouts, fires and explosions; • Surface craterings and casing collapses; • Uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; • Pipe and cement failures; • Formations with abnormal pressures; • Stuck drilling and service tools; • Pipeline ruptures or spills; • Natural disasters; and • Releases of toxic natural gas. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any of these events could cause substantial losses to us as a result of: • Injury or death; • Damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • Pollution and other environmental damage; • Regulatory investigations and penalties; • Suspension of operations; and • Repair and remediation costs. We could also be responsible for environmental damage caused by previous owners of property from whom we purchased leases. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. Although we maintain what we believe is appropriate and customary insurance for these risks, the insurance may not be available or sufficient to cover all of these liabilities. If these liabilities are not covered by our insurance, paying them could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties. The CBM which we produce in the Powder River Basin may be drained by offsetting production wells. Our drilling locations in the Powder River Basin are spaced primarily using 80-acre spacing. Producing wells located on the 80-acre spacing units contiguous with our drilling locations may drain the acreage underlying our wells. We do not operate these properties and have limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. Likewise, as a result of our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, we are limited in our ability to drill wells to protect against drainage. Although there has not been a material number of offsetting wells drilled adjacent to our properties at this time, if a substantial number of productive wells are drilled on spacing units adjacent to our properties, they may decrease our revenue and could have an adverse impact on the economically recoverable reserves of our properties that are susceptible to such drainage. Our Powder River Basin CBM wells typically have a shorter reserve life and lower rates of production than conventional natural gas wells, which may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to recognize proved reserves from this basin during periods of low natural gas prices. The shallow coal from which we produce CBM in the Powder River Basin typically have a two to six year reserve life and have lower total reserves and produce at lower rates than most conventional natural gas wells. We depend on drilling a large number of wells each year to replace production and reserves in the Powder River Basin and to distribute operational expenses over a larger number of wells. A decline in natural gas prices could make certain wells uneconomical because production rates are lower on an individual well basis and may be insufficient to cover operational costs. The extended decline in gas prices through 2009 combined with the revised pricing methodology under the new SEC rules, described in more detail above, had a negative impact on our reserves in the Powder River Basin. As of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize any proved undeveloped reserves in the Powder River Basin because our proved undeveloped reserves in the Basin did not have a positive PV-10 value and were uneconomical as a result. Our proved developed reserves in the Basin had only nominal value at such date. Approximately 85% of our natural gas and oil revenues and 89% of our total proved reserves as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 were attributable to our properties in East Texas. Any disruption in production, development of proved reserves, or our ability to process and sell natural gas from this area would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or reduce future revenues. Our current production is geographically concentrated in East Texas. Production of the natural gas in East Texas could unexpectedly be disrupted or curtailed due to reservoir or mechanical problems. Our natural gas 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements produced from this area contains levels of carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide that are above levels accepted by gas purchasers. This production must be treated by the purchaser. A majority of our East Texas production is processed by the purchaser. If the purchaser’s facilities ceased to operate, were destroyed or otherwise needed replacement, it could require 60 to 90 days to replace or repair these facilities. A 60 to 90 day curtailment of our East Texas production could reduce current revenues by an estimated $4.3 million to $6.4 million, before the impact of hedges, with a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. Moreover, an unexpected delay in developing proved reserves in this area due to capital constraints or changes in development plan could reduce future revenues. There are a limited number of natural gas purchasers and transporters in the Hilltop area of East Texas. The loss of our current purchaser and transporter and an inability to locate another purchaser and transporter would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There are a limited number of natural gas transporters in the Hilltop area in East Texas. For the year ended December 31, 2009, ETC accounted for substantially all of our revenues from this area. If ETC were to cease purchasing and transporting our natural gas and we were unable to contract with another transporter, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Our ability to market our natural gas and oil may be impaired by capacity constraints on the gathering systems and pipelines that transport our natural gas and oil. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas production, particularly in the Appalachian area, depends on the proximity of our reserves to and the capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. We do not own or operate any natural gas lines or distribution facilities and rely on third parties to construct additional interstate pipelines to increase our ability to bring our production to market. We enter into agreements with companies that own pipelines used to transport natural gas from the wellhead to contract destination. Those pipelines are limited in size and volume of natural gas flow. Our Marcellus Shale production currently is subject to pipeline infrastructure and access constraints in the area. Numerous mid-stream pipeline projects have been proposed for the area, but until such projects are completed, we will likely continue to incur delays in getting our Marcellus Shale production to sales. Our development of Marcellus Shale properties may be limited or delayed. Should production begin, other outstanding contracts with other producers and developers could interfere with our access to a natural gas line to deliver natural gas to the market. Delays in the commencement of operations of new pipelines, the unavailability of the new pipelines or other facilities due to market conditions, mechanical reasons or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, interstate transportation and distribution of natural gas is regulated by the federal government through the FERC. FERC sets rules and carries out administratively the oversight of interstate markets for natural gas and other energy policy. Additionally, state regulators have powers over sale, supply and delivery of natural gas and oil within their state borders. While we do employ certain companies to represent our interests before state regulatory agencies, our interests may not receive favorable rulings from any state agency, or some future occurrence may drastically alter our ability to enter into contracts or deliver natural gas to the market. In West Virginia and southwestern Pennsylvania, key issues to development include limited pipeline infrastructure and access, water access and disposal issues to support operations, and limited industry services. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively conduct exploration and development activities. In recent years, pipeline capacity for natural gas deliveries out of the Rocky Mountain area has been, at times, significantly constrained resulting in an oversupply and creating substantial discounts on spot natural gas prices received for regional production. This has had a substantial impact on the prices received for natural gas production from Wyoming and Montana, as compared to Gulf Coast natural gas prices. While a recently completed interstate pipeline has alleviated the problem by providing access to the Midwest interstate pipelines 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and markets, the relief may be offset over time by the expected increase in supply of natural gas available in the Rocky Mountains. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. We are smaller and have less operating history than many of our competitors, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with other natural gas and oil companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated natural gas and oil companies, numerous independent natural gas and oil companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do and, in many instances, have been engaged in the natural gas and oil business for a much longer time than we have. These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase more properties and prospects than our financial and human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to spend more on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to the current and future success of natural gas and oil companies. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct our operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Increased competitive pressure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. Where appropriate, we may evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of: • Recoverable reserves; • Exploration potential; • Future natural gas and oil prices; • Operating costs; • Potential environmental and other liabilities; and • Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every facility or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: • Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; • Unanticipated costs; • Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business; • Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate, which may affect the timing and success of our future operations. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could have a material adverse affect on the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including: • Timing and amount of capital expenditures; • The operator’s expertise and financial resources; • Approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • Selection of technology. Technological changes could affect our operations. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement such new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, many other natural gas and oil companies have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may be unable to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies that we currently use or may implement in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Hedging of our production may result in losses or prevent us from benefiting to the fullest extent possible from increases in prices for natural gas and oil. We have entered into New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) futures contracts as hedges on 6.8 Bcf of natural gas production in 2010. Although these hedges may partially protect us from by declines in natural gas prices, the use of these arrangements also may limit our ability to benefit from significant increases in the prices of natural gas. Exchange rate fluctuations subject us to unique risks. As a result of our monetary deposits in Australian dollars, we are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. Currently, we have only minimal exposure to Canadian currency fluctuations, as almost all of our current revenues and expenses are in U.S. dollars. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We depend to a large extent on the services of a limited number of senior management personnel and directors. Particularly, the loss of the services of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer could negatively impact our future operations. We have employment agreements with these key members of our senior management team; although, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management. We believe that our success is also dependent on our ability to continue to retain the services of skilled technical personnel. Our inability to retain skilled technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, future cash flows and the results of operations. Our major shareholder may influence the activities and operations of certain jointly owned properties, which also could result in conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2009, Chesapeake Energy Corporation owned approximately 13.6% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, Chesapeake is in a position to heavily influence the outcome of matters requiring a 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of or amendment to provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Their high level of ownership may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. Chesapeake has the right to have an observer present at our board of directors meetings. Chesapeake and its subsidiaries are also engaged in the natural gas and oil business. It is possible that we may in some circumstances be in direct or indirect competition with Chesapeake, including competition with respect to certain business strategies and transactions that we may propose to undertake. These conflicts of interest may have a material adverse affect our results of operations. Some of our directors may not be subject to suit in the United States. Two of our directors are citizens of Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors, to bring suit against them in the United States or to enforce in the United States courts any judgment obtained there against them predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts will enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against those directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States or will enforce, in original actions, liabilities against those directors upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Future issuances of our common shares may adversely affect the price of our common shares. The future issuance of a substantial number of common shares into the public market, or the perception that such an issuance could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. A decline in the price of our common shares could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of our common shares or securities convertible into common shares. Our ability to issue an unlimited number of our common shares under our articles of incorporation may result in dilution or make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common shares. Unlike most corporations formed in the United States, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation chartered under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada permit the board of directors to issue an unlimited number of new common shares without shareholder approval, subject only to the rules of the NYSE Amex LLC or any future exchange on which our common shares might trade. The issuance of a large number of common shares could be affected by our directors to thwart a takeover attempt or offer for us by a third party, even if doing so would not benefit our shareholders, which could result in the common shares being valued less in the market. The issuance or the threat of issuance of a large number of common shares at prices that are dilutive to the outstanding common shares could also result in the common shares being valued less in the market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 