Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following material risk factors associated with our business and the offering of shares of our common stock when evaluating Gastar. An investment in Gastar will be subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of the common shares of Gastar will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in Gastar may decrease, resulting in a loss. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Natural gas and oil prices are volatile and a decline in natural gas and oil prices can significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business greatly depends on market prices of natural gas and oil. The higher market prices are, the more likely it is that we will be financially successful. On the other hand, declines in natural gas or oil prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, profitability and liquidity. Lower prices also may reduce the amount of natural gas or oil that we can produce economically. Natural gas and oil are commodities whose prices are set by broad market forces. Historically, the natural gas and oil markets have been volatile. We do not see any reason why natural gas or oil prices will not continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for natural gas and oil are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas or oil, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • The domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; • Overall economic conditions; • Weather conditions; • Political conditions in the Middle East and other oil producing regions; • Domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • The level of consumer product demand; and • The price and availability of alternative fuels. Rising demand for natural gas to fuel power generation and to meet increasingly stringent environmental requirements has led some observers to believe that long-term demand for natural gas is increasing. Our success depends on natural gas prices in the specific areas where we operate, and these prices may be lower than prices at major markets. Even though overall natural gas prices at major markets, such as Henry Hub in Louisiana, may be high, regional natural gas prices may move somewhat independent of broad industry price trends. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional natural gas prices regardless of Henry Hub or other major market pricing. For example, surplus natural gas supplies relative to available transportation in the Powder River Basin in 2002 caused local natural gas prices to be much less than national natural gas prices, and we, therefore, were unable to take advantage of those higher national natural gas prices. Low natural gas prices in any or all of the areas where we operate would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Natural gas and oil reserves are depleting assets, and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows. Our future natural gas and oil production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Production from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. If we are not successful, our future production and revenues will be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Exploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful. Our future success will largely depend on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • Unexpected drilling conditions; • Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage; • Pressure or irregularities in formations; • Equipment failures or accidents; • Adverse weather conditions; • Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future; and • Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. We use available seismic data to assist in the location of potential drilling sites. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and other visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, future cash flows and results of operations. In addition, using seismic data and other advanced technologies involves substantial upfront costs and is more expensive than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of these expenditures. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception and may incur additional significant net losses in the future. We have not been profitable since we started our business. We incurred net losses of $25.7 million, $12.8 million and $4.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our capital has been employed in an increasingly expanding natural gas and oil exploration and development program with the focus on finding significant natural gas an oil reserves and producing from them over the long-term rather than focusing on achieving immediate net income. The uncertainties described in this section may impede our ability to ultimately find, develop and exploit natural gas and oil reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial and operational flexibility, and our level of indebtedness may increase. As of December 31, 2005, the principal amount of our long-term debt was $106.3 million. Our level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including the following: • A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness; • A high level of debt increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • The covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends, sell common shares below certain prices and make certain investments; • Although we have the ability, subject to the limitations specified in the agreement, to borrow an additional $10.0 million of senior secured notes through June 2007, the terms of our senior secured notes prohibit us from borrowing funds senior or pari passu to the senior secured notes and may limit our ability to borrow subordinated funds; 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy or in our industry; • A high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; and • A default under our senior loan covenants could result in required principal payments that we may not be able to meet, resulting in higher penalty interest rates and/or debt maturity acceleration. We may incur additional debt, including significant additional secured indebtedness, in order to make future acquisitions or to develop our properties. A higher level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, natural gas and oil prices and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital. If we are unable to raise substantial amounts of additional capital, we may not be able to maximize our business plan. In order to maximize our business plan, we will need to raise substantial amounts of new capital. If we experience difficulties in raising equity or debt capital, we may be required to scale back our business plan by limiting acquisitions and our drilling and development program. Restrictions imposed under our senior secured notes may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present values of our reserves. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating natural gas and oil reserves and their values, many of which are beyond our control. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas or oil that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable natural gas or oil reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend on many variables and assumptions, such as: • Historical natural gas or oil production from that area, compared with production from other producing areas; • The assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • Assumptions concerning future prices; • Assumptions concerning future operating costs; • Assumptions concerning severance and excise taxes; and • Assumptions concerning development costs and workover and remedial costs. Any of these assumptions could vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas or oil attributable to any particular group of properties, 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements classifications of those reserves based on risk recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected from them prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineer at different times, may vary substantially. Because of this, our reserve estimates may materially change at any time. You should not consider the present values of estimated future net cash flows referred to in this Form 10-K to be the current market value of the estimated reserves attributable to our properties. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs in effect when the estimate is made. However, actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: • The amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for natural gas or oil; • Curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas or oil purchasers; • Changes in governmental regulations or taxation; and • The timing of both production and expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas or oil properties. In this Form 10-K, the net present value of future net revenues is calculated using a 10% discount rate. This rate is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our reserves or the natural gas and oil industry in general. The imprecise nature of estimating proved natural gas and oil reserves, future downward revisions of proved reserves and increased drilling expenditures without current additions to proved reserves may lead to write downs in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties. Due to the imprecise nature of estimating natural gas and oil reserves as well as the potential volatility in natural gas and oil prices and their effect on the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, write downs in the future may be required as a result of factors that may negatively affect the present value of proved natural gas and oil reserves. These factors can include volatile natural gas and oil prices, downward revisions in estimated proved natural gas and oil reserve quantities, limited classification of proved reserves associated with successful wells and unsuccessful drilling activities. A majority of our proved reserves are classified as proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped and may ultimately prove to be less than estimated. At December 31, 2005, approximately 79% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped. It will take substantial capital to recomplete or drill our non-producing and undeveloped locations. Further, our drilling efforts may be delayed or unsuccessful, and actual reserves may prove to be less than current reserve estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Deficiencies of title to our leased interests could significantly affect our financial condition. Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of lease brokers and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental or county clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to the drilling of an exploration well, the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease and/or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. However, such deficiencies may have been cured by the operator of any such wells. It does happen, from time to time, that the examination made by the title 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect, which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience shortages of equipment and personnel, which could significantly disrupt or delay our operations. From time to time, there has been a general shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services in North America and Australia, which we believe may intensify because of current increased industry activity. In addition, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies have risen. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or trained personnel could delay and adversely affect our operations and drilling plans, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. While we intend to enter into contracts for the services of drilling rigs in North America and Australia, we may not be successful in doing so. The demand for, and wage rates of, qualified rig crews have begun to rise in the drilling industry due to the increasing number of active rigs in service. Personnel shortages have occurred in the past during times of increasing demand for drilling services. If the number of active drilling rigs increases, we may experience shortages of qualified personnel to operate our drilling rigs, which could delay our drilling operations and adversely affect our business. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. Our exploration and production interests and operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the handling and discharge of substances into the environment. These existing laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our interests and operations including: • Air and water discharge permits for drilling and production operations; • Drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility assurances; • Reports concerning operations; • Spacing of wells; • Access to properties, particularly in the Powder River Basin; • Taxation; and • Other regulatory controls on operating activities. In addition, regulatory agencies have from time to time imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the flow rate of wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of natural gas and oil. Failure to comply with environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to our interests and operations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting future operations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Legal requirements are sometimes unclear and are frequently changed in response to economic or political conditions. As a result, it is hard to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their affect on our interests and operations. In addition, existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and oil, by-products of natural gas and oil and other substances produced or used in connection with natural gas and oil production operations 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements are regulated by laws and regulations focused on the protection of human health and the environment. Consequently, the discharge or release of natural gas, oil or other substances into the air, soil or water could subject us to liabilities arising from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Our Australian operations are subject to unique risks relating to Aboriginal land claims and government licenses. Our Australian operations could be affected by native title claims by Aboriginal groups. Australian law recognizes that in some instances native title, that is the laws and customs of the Aboriginal inhabitants, has survived European settlement. Native title will only survive if it has not been extinguished. Native title may be extinguished by an Act of Government, such as the creation of a title that is inconsistent with native title. This may include a grant of the right to exclusive possession through freehold title or lease. Native title may also be extinguished if the connection between the land and the group of Aboriginal people claiming native title has been lost. Each authority to prospect, and license in areas in which we desire to engage in exploration or production activities must be examined individually in order to determine the validity of any native title claim. We may be required to negotiate with any Aborigines who can make a valid claim to having ancestral ties to the areas in which we desire to engage in exploration or production activities. These negotiations could both delay the timing of our exploration or production activities, as well as add an additional layer of cost or a requirement to share revenues if any Aboriginal claimants are proved to have native title rights in the exploration areas. Approximately 27.5% of our Gippsland Basin property in Victoria may be subject to native title claims. We have been informed by the government of New South Wales that the proportion of land within PEL 238 in the Gunnedah Basin, New South Wales, which is potentially subject to native title claims, cannot be readily determined. The process of drilling for and producing natural gas and oil involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and we may not have enough insurance to cover these risks adequately. The natural gas and oil business involves many operating hazards, such as: • Well blowouts, fires and explosions; • Surface craterings and casing collapses; • Uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil or well fluids; • Pipe and cement failures; • Formations with abnormal pressures; • Stuck drilling and service tools; • Pipeline ruptures or spills; • Natural disasters; and • Releases of toxic natural gas. Any of these events could cause substantial losses to us as a result of: • Injury or death; • Damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • Pollution and other environmental damage; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Regulatory investigations and penalties; • Suspension of operations; and • Repair and remediation costs. We could also be responsible for environmental damage caused by previous owners of property that we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. Although we maintain what we believe is appropriate and customary insurance for these risks, the insurance may not be available or sufficient to cover all of these liabilities. If these liabilities are not covered by our insurance, paying them could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties. Approximately 66% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 was from the production of wells located in our Deep Bossier play in East Texas. Any disruption in production or our ability to process and sell our natural gas production from this area would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Production of natural gas could unexpectedly be disrupted or curtailed due to reservoir or mechanical problems. Additionally, a majority of our East Texas production is processed through two on-site processing facilities. If these facilities ceased to operate, were destroyed or otherwise needed replacement, it could require 60 to 90 days to replace either one or both of these facilities. A 60 to 90 day curtailment of our east Texas production could reduce current revenues by $4.0 to $6.0 million, with a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. Our ability to market our natural gas and oil may be impaired by capacity constraints on the gathering systems and pipelines that transport our natural gas and oil. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas production depends on the proximity of our reserves to and the capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and trucking or terminal facilities. We enter into agreements with companies that own pipelines used to transport natural gas from the wellhead to contract destination. Those pipelines are limited in size and volume of natural gas flow. Should production begin, other outstanding contracts with other producers and developers could interfere with our access to a natural gas line to deliver natural gas to the market. We do not own or operate any natural gas lines or distribution facilities. Further, interstate transportation and distribution of natural gas is regulated by the federal government through the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC. FERC sets rules and carries out administratively the oversight of interstate markets for natural gas and other energy policy. Among FERC’s powers is the ability to dictate sale and delivery of natural gas to any markets it oversees. Additionally, state regulators have vast powers over sale, supply and delivery of natural gas and oil within their state borders. While we do employ certain companies to represent our interests before state regulatory agencies, our interests may not receive favorable rulings from any state agency, or some future occurrence may drastically alter our ability to enter into contracts or deliver natural gas to the market. Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense. We are smaller and have a more limited operating history than most of our competitors, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with other natural gas and oil companies in all areas of our operations, including the acquisition of exploratory prospects and proven properties. Our competitors include major integrated natural gas and oil companies, numerous independent natural gas and oil companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies that have substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do and that, in many instances, have been engaged in the natural gas and oil business for a much longer time than we have. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These companies may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase more properties and prospects than our financial and human resources permit. In addition, these companies may be able to spend more on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to the current and future success of natural gas and oil companies. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil prospects and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct our operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations. Where appropriate, we may evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. In particular, we expect to pursue acquisitions that have the potential to economically increase our natural gas and oil reserves. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of: • Recoverable reserves; • Exploration potential; • Future natural gas and oil prices; • Operating costs; • Potential environmental and other liabilities; and • Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations. In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain, and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including: • Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies; • Unanticipated costs; • Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business; • Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate, which may affect the timing and success of our future operations. Other companies operate some of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including: • Timing and amount of capital expenditures; • The operator’s expertise and financial resources; • Approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • Selection of technology. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Technological changes could affect our operations. The natural gas and oil industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement such new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other natural gas and oil companies have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may be unable to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or may implement in the future may become obsolete. Rapid growth could result in a strain on our resources. Because of our size, our growth, if achieved, will likely place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrence of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the recruitment and retention of experienced managers, geoscientists and engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Our ability to successfully execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate financing. Our business plan, which includes participation in 3-D seismic shoots, the drilling of exploration prospects and development projects and producing property acquisitions, has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures. We may require additional financing to fund our planned growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In particular, the terms of our senior secured notes limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be required to curtail our exploration and development activities or be forced to sell some of our assets in an untimely fashion or on less than favorable terms. Not hedging our production may result in losses. We currently do not hedge our natural gas and oil production. By not hedging our production, we may be more adversely affected by declines in natural gas and oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements. Further, should we elect to hedge in the future, such hedges may result in us receiving lower than current prevailing market prices and place additional financial strains on us due to having to post margin calls on our hedges. Exchange rate fluctuations subject us to unique risks. As our Australian activities increase, we will be increasingly exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. We have only minimal exposure to Canadian currency fluctuations, as almost all of our current revenues and expenses are in U.S. dollars. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We depend to a large extent on the services of a limited number of senior management personnel and directors. Particularly, the loss of the services of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer could negatively impact our future operations. We have employment contracts with these key members of our senior management team; although, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management. We believe that our success is also dependent on our ability to continue to retain the services of skilled technical personnel. Our inability to retain skilled technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our major shareholders may influence the activities and operations of certain jointly owned properties, which also could result in conflicts of interest. As of December 31, 2005, Chesapeake and GeoStar owned approximately 16.5% and 10.9% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. As a result, Chesapeake and GeoStar are in a position to heavily influence the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Their high level of ownership may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control of us and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. The chairman of our board of directors is also a director and chief executive officer of GeoStar. Chesapeake has the right to have present an observer at our board of directors meetings. In accordance with the laws of Alberta, our directors are required to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests. The GeoStar director on our board of directors also has fiduciary duties to manage GeoStar, including its investments in companies such as us, in a manner beneficial to GeoStar and its shareholders. In some circumstances, these duties may conflict with his duties as a director of Gastar. Addressing matters, such as board of director conflicts, are subject to the procedures and remedies as provided under the Business Corporations Act (Alberta). Each of Chesapeake and GeoStar and their subsidiaries are also engaged in the natural gas and oil business. Although we have entered into the Participating and Operating Agreement, or POA, with GeoStar in 2001, and a joint operating agreement with Chesapeake, it is possible that we may in some circumstances be in direct or indirect competition with Chesapeake or GeoStar, including competition with respect to certain business strategies and transactions that we may propose to undertake. These conflicts of interest may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our directors may not be subject to suit in the United States. Three of our directors reside in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those directors, to bring suit against them in the United States or to enforce in the United States courts any judgment obtained there against them predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian courts (a) will enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against those directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States; or (b) will enforce, in original actions, liabilities against those directors upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws. If we are unable to meet the SEC’s requirements related to the assessment, attestation and effectiveness of our internal controls, we may suffer a loss of investor confidence, and the price of our common shares may be adversely affected. Under the Exchange Act, we will be required to include in our annual report a report on internal controls over financial reporting. This report must state management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. The report must also contain an assessment as of the end of the year of the effectiveness of those internal controls. The Exchange Act also requires our registered public accounting firm to test and report on the assessment made by management. These new rules could become effective for us for the year ending December 31, 2007. In order to meet these requirements, we must document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls and then allow time for our registered public accounting firm to audit our internal control structure. The amount of work required by us to prepare, maintain and test our internal control structure could be extensive. In the event that management is unable to complete its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or our auditors are unable to attest to management’s assessment or do their own assessment, or if these internal controls are not effective, we might experience an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our common shares. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 