Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations General economic and conditions in the global financial and credit markets may materially adversely affect our loss experience, the demand for our services and our financial results. The global economy is gradually recovering from a significant slowdown in economic activity, which has begun to reduce the stresses that were apparent during the past two years on the banking system, sovereign entities and private corporations worldwide. However, there continues to be sectors of the global and financial markets where the outlook remains uncertain and volatile, which could create a greater level of risk to our business. These conditions are characterized as business and bank failures, greater market volatility, poor liquidity and reduced levels of bank lending, wide credit spreads, a lack of price transparency and a flight to quality, among others. If these conditions persist or worsen, Primus Financial may experience a higher level of credit events which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to manage effectively the risk of credit losses would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. During 2009, we completed several risk mitigation transactions in Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio as part of our plan to actively manage this portfolio in amortization. The objectives of these transactions, which included both portfolio repositioning transactions of single name credit swaps and tranche transactions with certain counterparties and terminations of selected credit swaps referencing specific Reference Entities, were to reduce the risk of certain Reference Entity concentrations, as well as to improve the capital subordination levels in certain tranche transactions. However, there cannot be any assurance that any of the transactions which we have completed or which we may complete in the future will be effective. In addition, if the level of credit events were to exceed our expectations, the payments Primus Financial would be required to make under its related credit swaps could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even though we may identify a heightened risk of default with respect to a particular Reference Entity or Entities, our ability to limit Primus Financial’s losses, through hedging, terminating credit swaps or other risk mitigation transactions, before defined credit events actually occur could be limited by conditions of inadequate liquidity in the credit swap market or conditions which render terminations, hedging or such other risk mitigation transactions economically impractical. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage higher risks of credit losses effectively. It is possible that the level of credit events that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. 17 Table of Contents We face risks in Primus Financial’s credit protection business from concentrations in its single name credit swaps sold on issuers in certain industries. At December 31, 2009, 15.4% of Primus Financial’s single name credit swap portfolio in notional amounts referenced financial intermediaries; 9.6% referenced insurance companies, including financial guaranty companies; 5.1% referenced building/development; 3.3% referenced retailers (except food and drug) and 2.6% referenced publishing. In the aggregate, Reference Entities in these industries represented approximately 36% in notional amounts of Primus Financial’s total single name credit swap portfolio. Credit events on Reference Entities within these industries on which Primus Financial has written credit protection in significant notional amounts or which affect multiple Reference Entities could cause Primus Financial to suffer significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Primus Financial’s portfolio has large exposure on credit swaps sold referencing a number of global financial intermediaries and banks. With the consolidation that has occurred within the global banking system, exposures have become even larger and more concentrated. The financial condition of many global financial institutions has weakened considerably during the crisis in the credit markets. A number of such firms have needed capital infusions and support from governments and central banks. While some of this governmental funding has been re-paid, other institutions continue to have significant governmental support. Many of these institutions also have had to raise new capital at very expensive levels as their balance sheets have deteriorated, primarily as a result of the markdowns taken on certain of their assets and on certain off-balance sheet derivatives. In addition, concerns regarding residential and commercial real estate exposures, as well as concerns about holdings of certain sovereign debt obligations, could put further stress on these institutions. At December 31, 2009, Primus Financial’s portfolio of credit swaps with current performing counterparties referencing insurance companies on five financial guaranty companies in a total aggregate notional amount was approximately $329 million. Some of the financial guarantors have had significant deterioration in their balance sheets and capital ratios and, as a result, have sought to re-structure by effecting commutations with their counterparties on various structured credit positions in their portfolios. As a result of the economic downturn, retail and building/development sectors have suffered significantly, which is adversely affecting companies in these sectors. Publishing also has been affected, as a number of old media companies are highly leveraged and having difficulty re-financing or extending their debt while at the same time losing advertising and readers. In 2009, there were some bankruptcies of smaller newspaper publishers. Primus Financial’s counterparties are primarily global financial institutions and major credit swap dealers. Some of these institutions have been under stress which has impacted their balance sheets, capital ratios and ratings and many have had to raise large amounts of new capital. A default by a major counterparty could have a material adverse impact on Primus Financial. As noted above, the financial condition of certain global financial institutions has weakened considerably during the crisis in the credit markets. The insolvency of a major financial institutional counterparty would have a material adverse impact on Primus Financial as it is likely the insolvent counterparty would cease making premium payments on its credit swap agreements. Even in that situation, it may, as a practical matter, be difficult for Primus Financial to cancel its contracts with the counterparty, although it has taken the position that it would not make a payment if a claim arose from a credit event on a Reference Entity under a credit swap agreement with a defaulting counterparty. There is little settled legal precedent to rely on pertaining to the default of a credit swap counterparty. 18 Table of Contents Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio of credit swaps also creates risks for us. As of December 31, 2009, Primus Financial’s portfolio of credit swap tranches sold was $4.1 billion (in notional amount). Tranches generally reference pools of credit swaps and have capital subordination levels that are designed to protect against making cash payments upon some number of credit events affecting the Reference Entities referenced in the tranche. During 2008 and 2009, a combination of credit events with respect to certain Reference Entities in Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio caused the subordination levels and implied ratings of various tranches to be reduced. Additional credit events in the future may further reduce such a tranche’s subordination levels, and if such levels are reduced to zero, Primus Financial will be required to make cash payments to the relevant counterparty, potentially to the full notional amount of the tranche transaction. This would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While management of Primus Financial has completed one risk mitigation transaction prior to December 31, 2009 and another one since the beginning of 2010 seeking to improve the capital subordination levels in certain tranche transactions, there can be no assurance that any such risk mitigation transactions, previously completed or completed in the future will be successful. As a result of the disruption in the credit markets, management has changed its strategy to amortize Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio and to emphasize our credit asset management expertise by expanding our asset management activities and developing a new credit protection platform as a replacement for our credit protection business. There can be no assurance that our new business plan will be successful. Early in 2009, we announced a change in strategy, which focused on, among other things, 1) actively managing the amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio; 2) pursuing new asset management opportunities; and 3) developing a new credit protection platform. The successful execution of the amortization of the Primus Financial credit swap portfolio will be highly dependent on the level of credit losses in that portfolio over its remaining life. Management expects the credit markets will continue to be uncertain and volatile for some time and that certain industry sectors could continue to experience further deterioration in their balance sheets and poor financial performance. This could increase the potential for additional credit events. It is possible that the level of credit event losses that Primus Financial experiences will exceed its ability to pay claims. While Primus Financial has effected risk mitigation transactions (comprising both portfolio repositioning transactions and terminations of selected credit swaps referencing specific Reference Entities), it is not possible to forecast the actual level of credit events that it may experience, and any actions taken seeking to mitigate risks may not ultimately succeed. Growing our asset management activities generally will require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our personnel and resources and may subject us to additional regulatory oversight. Our strategy calls for us to seek to achieve growth both organically and through acquisitions. The capital to invest in our asset management business is limited and raising additional capital to further expand these activities may not be possible in the current economic environment. We also may not be able to attract or retain personnel with the necessary experience to manage this business. Acquisitions create the risk of integrating the acquired operations while continuing to manage the assets acquired. Also, we may be expected to co-invest in new vehicles we manage, possibly in a junior or first loss position, and the capital so invested may be exposed to the risk of significant losses if the vehicles perform poorly. Our failure to grow our asset management activities could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to develop a new credit protection platform to replace Primus Financial’s current credit protection platform will be highly dependent on whether we can raise sufficient capital and develop new customer relationships. This could be difficult in light of current economic conditions. Additionally, we may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in developing a new credit protection platform and our failure to execute on this strategy could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these complications may include obtaining ratings agency approvals and required licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. There is no assurance that we will accurately anticipate resource requirements or that our strategy will be implemented effectively. Even if we are successful in the implementation of our new business initiatives, there cannot be any assurance that the revenue growth and profitability we achieve will be sufficient to offset the reduction in revenues from the amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio or the losses from credit events that such portfolio could experience as it matures. 19 Table of Contents Our operations may become subject to increased regulation or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that new legal or administrative interpretations or regulations under the U.S. commodities and securities laws, or other applicable legislation on the federal or state levels, or in Bermuda, the United Kingdom, or other jurisdictions, will not adversely affect our business by, among other things, imposing administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences. Periodically, proposals have been made and are pending in the U.S. Congress and elsewhere to enact legislation that would increase regulation of the credit swap market. We cannot predict what consequences any such legislation, if adopted, would result and the effect those consequences would have on our business. Credit swap buyers typically use credit swaps to manage risk and regulatory capital requirements that limit their credit exposure to a Reference Entity. Regulatory changes that modify the permissible limits of credit risk exposure, or affect the use of credit swaps to reduce risk, may have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, it is likely that one or a number of credit swap clearinghouses will be established. It is difficult to forecast exactly what impact the establishment of this type of enterprise could have on our business strategy. If Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial is required to register as an “investment company” under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, a variety of restrictions would be imposed, including limitations on capital structure, restrictions on investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance requirements that could limit our growth and increase our costs. There is no assurance that we could function effectively if either Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial is required to register as an investment company. We may have difficulty in servicing our outstanding debt. At December 31, 2009, Primus Guaranty, Ltd. had $94.6 million outstanding of its 7% Senior Notes due 2036 (the “7% Senior Notes”) and Primus Financial Products, LLC had $240.7 million outstanding in the aggregate of its perpetual preferred securities and subordinated deferrable interest notes. As a holding company, we currently rely on investment income from our portfolio of investments to service the interest on the 7% Senior Notes. If that investment income were to decline such that it was insufficient to pay interest on the 7% Senior Notes, we would have difficulty finding other sources of income to pay such interest and, as a result, have difficulty in servicing such debt. Primus Financial relies on its credit swap premiums and its investment income from its portfolio of investments to service the interest on its outstanding debt and make distribution payments on its perpetual preferred securities. If Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio suffers significant credit events, it will be forced to liquidate significant portions of its investment portfolio in order to pay claims to its counterparties, thereby also reducing the source of its investment income utilized to service its outstanding debt. In addition, Primus Guaranty, Ltd. currently cannot demand that Primus Financial Products, LLC pay a dividend or make a distribution to Primus Guaranty, Ltd. as any decision to do so would require the approval of the board of directors of Primus Financial Products, LLC, including directors not affiliated with the Company. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our new business strategy may require the raising of additional capital. In the current environment it would be very difficult for Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial to raise additional capital should Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial need to do so. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, would likely be on terms that are not favorable to us or our shareholders but nonetheless, we may have to accept those terms. Further deterioration in Primus Guaranty’s ratings would make it even more difficult to raise capital and would increase the cost. Moreover, any defaults on interest payments by either Primus Guaranty or Primus Financial on their respective debt and preferred security obligations would have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise additional capital in the future. 20 Table of Contents In addition, Primus Guaranty has been repurchasing its common shares and 7% Senior Notes and Primus Financial has been repurchasing its perpetual preferred securities and subordinated deferrable interest notes. Since the inception of these buyback programs in 2008, Primus Guaranty purchased and retired 7.9 million common shares at a cost of $13.2 million and $30.4 million of face amount of its 7% Senior Notes at a cost of $11.5 million. Primus Financial has repurchased $52.4 million of face amount of its outstanding securities at a cost of $16.8 million. There is no assurance that the capital repurchased in these transactions can be replaced. If we cannot obtain or replace adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of key employees. If we are not able to retain key employees or attract new employees in the future, we may be unable to operate our business successfully. The loss of any of our key personnel, including executive officers, other key employees and directors, could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to employ key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have “key person” life insurance to cover any of our officers, employees or directors. With the exception of the chief executive officer, we do not have employment contracts with our executive officers and key employees. Changes in our business strategy, as well as the uncertainties associated with its implementation may lead to a higher level of employee departures, and our ability to attract new qualified employees in the future and retain our current employees may be limited. Variations in market credit swap premiums and correlation levels could cause our financial results to be volatile. Events causing market credit swap premium levels to widen or tighten or correlation levels to change significantly on underlying Reference Entities in Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio will affect the fair value of related credit swaps and may increase the volatility of our financial results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In accordance with GAAP, we are required to report credit swaps at fair value, with changes in fair value during periods recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated statements of operations. The principal determinant of the fair value of a credit swap is the prevailing market premium associated with the underlying Reference Entity at the time the valuation is derived. The valuation of Primus Financial’s tranche portfolio also incorporates assumptions relating to the correlation of defaults between Reference Entities. The fair value of credit swaps also is affected by our estimation of counterparties, and our own ability to perform under the credit swap contracts. Generally, valuations for credit swaps in Primus Financial’s portfolio rely upon market pricing quotations from dealers and third-party pricing providers. We cannot provide assurance that there will be a broadly based and liquid market to provide reliable market quotations in the future, particularly in circumstances where there is abnormal volatility or lack of liquidity in the market. Factors that may cause market credit swap premiums and correlation assumptions to fluctuate include changes in national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, credit events within an industry, changes in a Reference Entity’s operating results, credit swap market liquidity, credit rating, cost of funds, management or any other factors leading investors to revise expectations about a Reference Entity’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations when due. Volatility in our reported GAAP results may cause our common share price to fluctuate significantly. Certain of our principal shareholders control us. At December 31, 2009, our principal shareholders (by which we mean those institutions that owned shares prior to our initial public offering in October 2004), directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, owned approximately 58% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, collectively, are able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers, amalgamations or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. There is no assurance that the interests of our principal shareholders will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. 21 Table of Contents Our rights plan may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change of control. On May 29, 2009, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Mellon Investor Services LLC, which we refer to as the rights plan, to contribute to the preservation of long-term value for our shareholders and to protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. In general terms, the rights plan works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group which acquires 20% or more of the outstanding common shares without the approval of our board of directors, subject to certain grandfather provisions. The provisions of our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, which could hinder shareholders’ ability to receive a premium for the Company’s common shares over the prevailing market prices. The commercial and investment activities of some of our principal shareholders and directors may compete with our business. Certain of our principal shareholders or our directors, and their respective affiliates, engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in direct or indirect competition with us. Some of our principal shareholders and directors, or their affiliates, may in the future sponsor other entities engaged in the credit swap business or asset management business, some of which compete with us. Certain of our shareholders and directors, and their respective affiliates, also have entered into agreements with and made investments in numerous companies that may compete with us. Our shareholders and directors, and their respective affiliates, also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may also be suitable opportunities for our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our principal shareholders continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding common shares, they will continue to be able to influence strongly or effectively control our business decisions. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to pay cash dividends on our common shares. Currently, we do not pay cash dividends on our common shares and we cannot be assured that funds will be available in the future to pay dividends. We currently expect to retain all available funds for use in the operation of our business. Further, and as appropriate, it is our intention to return to the shareholders capital no longer required for our operations or for the amortization of Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio. Additionally, we are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than our ownership of all of our subsidiaries. The majority of our capital is held at Primus Financial, and any determination for it to pay dividends or return capital to Primus Guaranty will be at the discretion of Primus Financial’s board of directors. Further, the payment of dividends and making of distributions by each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re is limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Any determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We are exposed to significant credit market risk related to changes in foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Primus Financial transacted credit swaps denominated in both U.S. dollars and euros. Approximately 33% of Primus Financial’s outstanding total credit swap portfolio of $17.5 billion (in notional amount) at December 31, 2009 was denominated in euros. The notional principal of the credit swap is denominated in euros and the premiums are payable in euros, and therefore our credit exposure is affected by changes in the exchange rate between euros and U.S. dollars. We translate euros into U.S. dollars at the current market exchange rates for the purpose of recognizing credit swap premium income and the computation of fair values in our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the exchange rates between euros and U.S. dollars may have an adverse affect on the fair value of credit swaps, settlement of potential credit event losses and premium income in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. We do not hedge against foreign exchange rate risk. 22 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on information systems and third-party service providers. Our businesses are highly dependent on information systems and technology. We outsource a significant portion of our information systems operations to third parties who are responsible for providing the management, maintenance and updating of such systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our business activities and our ongoing credit analysis and risk management assessments. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face potential exposure to litigation and claims within our business and strategy. The volume of litigation and claims against financial services firms has increased over the past several years. The risk of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify, and may occur years after activities, transactions or events at issue. Any legal action brought against us and the costs to defend such action, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Taxation Our status as a PFIC may result in significant additional tax costs for shareholders who are U.S. taxpayers. Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda (which for purposes of the discussion in this section includes its investments in certain CLOs) are likely to be and remain PFICs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There are potentially adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC for a shareholder who is a U.S. taxpayer. These consequences include the following: (1) if a shareholder makes a QEF election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, the shareholder will have to include annually in its taxable income an amount reflecting an allocable share of the income of Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder, (2) if a shareholder makes a mark-to-market election with respect to Primus Guaranty, the shareholder will have to include annually in its taxable income an amount reflecting any year-end increases in the price of our common shares, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder (moreover, it is unclear how such an election would affect the shareholder with respect to Primus Bermuda), and (3) if a shareholder does not make a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, the shareholder may incur significant additional U.S. federal income taxes with respect to dividends on, or gain from, the sale or other disposition of, our common shares, or with respect to dividends from Primus Bermuda to us, or with respect to our gain on any sale or other disposition of Primus Bermuda shares. If we are found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, we may be liable for significant U.S. taxes. We believe that Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, both directly and through Primus Bermuda’s indirect ownership interest in Primus Financial (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership interest) and Primus Bermuda’s ownership interest in PGUK (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Bermuda), will operate their businesses in a manner that should not result in their being treated as engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, we do not expect to pay U.S. corporate income or branch profits tax on Primus Financial’s or PGUK’s income. However, because the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is fact-based and there are no definitive standards for making such a determination, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Financial or PGUK are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. The maximum combined rate of U.S. corporate federal, state and local income tax that could apply to Primus Financial, Primus Bermuda, Primus Guaranty or PGUK, were 23 Table of Contents they found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business in New York City and subject to income tax, is currently approximately 46%. This combined income tax rate does not include U.S. branch profits tax that would be imposed on Primus Bermuda, were Primus Financial or PGUK, found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Bermuda. The branch profits tax, were it to apply, would apply at the rate of 30% on amounts deemed distributed. Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Financial are currently undergoing a U.S. federal income tax audit. The audit has not yet been completed and the outcome cannot be predicted. Should any issues considered in the audit be resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda could be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax. However, because of the uncertainty of the outcome of outstanding issues in the audit, quantification of any such an estimated range for any such potential tax cannot be made at this time. If the IRS successfully challenges the treatment Primus Financial has adopted for its credit swap transactions, the timing and character of taxable income recognized by Primus Financial could be adversely affected. Consistent with its treatment of the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial as the sale of options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have determined that in general Primus Financial will recognize income or loss as a protection seller or buyer only upon default, termination or expiration of the credit swaps. There is no definitive authority in support of the treatment by Primus Financial of its credit swaps as options for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and we do not intend to seek a ruling from the IRS on this point. In addition, the IRS has been studying the treatment of derivative transactions generally, including credit swaps, and has issued a notice requesting submissions from taxpayers regarding the manner in which they conduct their credit swap activities and indicating that the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS are contemplating issuing specific guidance in this area. No assurance can be given as to whether or when such guidance may be issued, whether it would be applied retroactively or whether it will be adverse to Primus Financial. Certain proposals under discussion could be inconsistent with the tax treatment adopted by Primus Financial. If the IRS were to assert successfully that the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial should be treated differently or these proposals were adopted, (1) the timing of the income recognized by Primus Financial could be accelerated, (2) the character of this income could be altered and (3) Primus Bermuda and Primus Guaranty, as non-U.S. persons, could be subject to U.S. income tax, or withholding tax at the rate of 30%. In addition, were these changes in character to apply and were Primus Bermuda (through its investment in Primus Financial) and Primus Guaranty (through its investment in Primus Financial) found to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business, Primus Bermuda’s and Primus Guaranty’s recognition of taxable income would be accelerated. Risks Related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Because Primus Guaranty is organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Primus Guaranty based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against Primus Guaranty or its directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, or would hear actions against Primus Guaranty or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the U.S. and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of U.S. courts and some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 24 Table of Contents U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would U.S. persons who own common shares of a U.S. corporation. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Tax Protection Act, has given each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then, subject to certain limitations, the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Re or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. Considerations related to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and as such is listed on the OECD “white list.” However, we are not able to predict what changes will be made to this classification or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 