Item 1A. Risk Factors. CarMax is subject to various risks, including the risks described below. CarMax’s business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to the company or that CarMax currently deems immaterial may also impair the business and its operations. Economic Conditions. In the normal course of business, CarMax is subject to changes in general or regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and default rates, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. Any significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase costs resulting in lower profitability for the company. Competition. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive business. CarMax’s competition includes publicly and privately owned franchised new car dealers and independent dealers, as well as millions of private individuals. The company’s competitors may sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that CarMax offers in the same or similar markets at competitive prices. Further, new entrants to the market could result in increased wholesale costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and margins. CAF is subject to competition from various financial institutions. Additionally, competition on vehicle sales and related financing is increasing as these products are now being marketed and sold over the Internet. Customers are using the Internet to compare pricing for cars and related financing, which may further reduce the company’s profitability. Retail Prices. Any significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles could result in lower sales and margins for the company. If any of CarMax’s competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices for used or new vehicles, the company would likely reduce its prices in order to remain competitive, which may result in a decrease in its sales and profitability and require a change in its operating strategies. Inventory. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory would adversely affect the company’s business. A failure to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with the broader market trade-in offer trends, or a failure to recognize those trends, could negatively impact CarMax’s ability to acquire inventory. Should excess inventory develop, the inability to liquidate excess inventory at prices that allow the company to meet its margin targets or to recover its costs would adversely affect the company’s profitability. Management and Workforce. CarMax’s success depends upon the continued contributions of its store, region, and corporate management teams. Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on the 9 Table of Contents company’s results of operations. In addition, as CarMax opens new stores, the company will need to hire additional personnel. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which CarMax operates is highly competitive and may subject the company to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. Information Systems. The company’s business is dependent upon the efficient operation of its information systems. In particular, CarMax relies on its information systems to effectively manage its sales, inventory, consumer financing, and customer information. The failure of the company’s information systems to perform as designed or the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of these systems could disrupt the company’s business, impact sales and profitability, or expose the company to customer or third-party claims. Capital. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the availability of long-term financing to support development of the company and the availability of securitization financing, could adversely affect the company’s growth and operating strategies. Further, CarMax’s current credit facility and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and/or performance triggers. Any failure by the company to comply with these covenants and/or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business. Real Estate. The inability to acquire suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit the expansion of the company’s store base and could have a material adverse affect on the company’s future operating results. Weather. The occurrence of weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, adversely affecting consumer traffic at CarMax’s auto superstores could negatively impact the company’s operating results. Seasonal Fluctuations. CarMax’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. In the company’s experience, demand for vehicles is generally lower during the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Therefore, CarMax generally realizes a higher proportion of its revenue and operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal quarters, the adverse effect on company’s revenues and operating profit for the year could be disproportionately large. Geographic Concentration. The company’s performance is subject to local economic, competitive, and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where CarMax operates. Because a large number of the company’s superstores are located in the Southeast U.S. and in the company’s Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston, Dallas, and Washington, D.C./Baltimore markets, the company’s current results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets. In the event that any of these geographic areas experience a downturn in economic conditions, it may adversely affect CarMax’s business. Regulatory Environment. CarMax’s business is subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements and laws regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing, and employment practices. The company’s facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The violation of these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties against the company, or in a cease and desist order against CarMax’s operations. As a result, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures, and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state, and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. Litigation. CarMax is subject to various litigation matters, which, if the outcomes in any significant matters are adverse, could negatively affect the company’s business. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against the company by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Such actions may expose CarMax to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief, and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of its licenses to conduct operations. Accounting Changes. The implementation of new accounting requirements or changes to generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect the company’s reported financial position or results of operations. Such potential changes currently under consideration by the Financial Accounting Standards Board include, but are not limited to, proposed rule changes relating to the accounting for securitization transactions and the accounting for defined benefit pension and other postemployment benefit plans. Other Material Events. The occurrence of certain material events including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or other significant national or international events could adversely affect the company’s operating results. 10 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 