ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our company involves a number of risks. You should specifically consider the following: INVESTMENT RISKS There is no current public trading market for our common stock. There is no current public market for the common stock and we have no obligation or immediate plans to apply for quotation or listing in any public securities market. Although we continue to evaluate and consider opportunities to establish a public market for our common stock, there can be no assurance that a public market will ever exist. It will therefore be very difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. Even 4 Table of Contents if our shareholders are able to sell their shares, the absence of a public market may cause the price received for any common stock sold to be less than the proportionate value of the real estate we own or less than the price our shareholders paid. We currently do not have research analysts reviewing the performance of our company. We do not have research analysts reviewing the performance of our company or our securities on an ongoing basis. Therefore, we do not have an independent review of our performance and value of our common stock relative to publicly traded companies. Our shareholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Our share redemption program may provide our shareholders with a limited opportunity to redeem their shares after they have held them for a period of one year. However, our board of directors reserves the right to suspend or terminate the share redemption program at any time. In addition, our share redemption program contains certain restrictions and limitations. Common stock may be redeemed quarterly on a pro rata basis. Subject to funds being available, the number of shares redeemed during any calendar year will be limited to the lesser of (1) three percent (3%) of the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year, and (2) the number of shares we can redeem with the proceeds we receive from the sale of common stock under our distribution reinvestment plan. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase our common stock, investors should not assume that they will be able to sell any of their shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. We have a limited operating history. Dividend Capital Trust was formed as a Maryland corporation on April 12, 2002 in order to own, operate and develop industrial real estate properties. We have a limited history of operations that investors are able to evaluate in making a decision to purchase or sell our common stock. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, including but not limited to Daryl H. Mechem, Evan H. Zucker, James D. Cochran, James R. Mulvihill, John A. Blumberg, Matthew T. Murphy, Thomas G. Wattles and Thomas I. Florence, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key personnel, and we currently do not have key man life insurance on any person. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. We also believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. We currently utilize our advisor for selection of properties and we rely on our board of directors for ultimate approval of the investment of offering proceeds. Our ability to pay distributions and achieve our other investment objectives is partially dependent upon the performance of our advisor in the acquisition of real estate properties, the operation of such properties and the determination of any financing arrangements. Our board of directors, which must approve all property acquisitions, has broad discretion to monitor the performance of our advisor, as well as to determine the manner in which the net offering proceeds from our public and private offerings are invested. Our board of directors may delegate to our investment committee, which is comprised of three directors, two of whom are independent directors, the authority to approve individual property acquisitions or developments of up to $25 million. All acquisitions or developments in excess of $25 million must be approved by our board of directors, including a majority of the independent directors. As a result, our shareholders must rely on our advisor to identify properties and propose transactions and on the board of directors to oversee and approve such transactions. 5 Table of Contents Our advisor will face conflicts of interest relating to time management. Our advisor is currently pursuing other business opportunities with third parties. Managers of our advisor are currently engaged in other real estate activities, including acquisition and development of commercial and residential real estate in the United States and Mexico. We are not able to estimate the amount of time that the managers of our advisor will devote to our business. As a result, the managers of our advisor may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, the time they devote to our business may decline and be less than we would require. We expect that as our real estate activities expand, our advisor will attempt to hire additional employees who would devote substantially all of their time to the business of Dividend Capital Trust and its affiliates. However, there can be no assurance that our advisor will devote adequate time to our business activities. Our advisor may face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties. We may buy properties at the same time as other entities that are affiliated with our advisor are buying properties. There is a risk that our advisor will choose a property that provides lower returns to us than a property purchased by another entity affiliated with our advisor. We may acquire properties in geographic areas where other affiliates of our advisor own properties. If one of the entities affiliated with our advisor attracts a customer that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable customer. Our advisor will face conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures with affiliates. We may enter into joint ventures with third parties, including entities that are affiliated with our advisor, such as Dividend Capital Total Realty Trust Inc., for the acquisition, development and improvement of properties. We may also purchase and develop properties directly or in joint ventures or partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with the sellers of the properties, affiliates of the sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with a direct investment in real estate, including, for example: • The possibility that our venture partner, co-tenant or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • That such venture partner, co-tenant or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • That such venture partner, co-tenant or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Actions by such a venture partner or co-tenant might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and may have the effect of reducing our shareholders’ returns. Under certain joint venture arrangements, neither venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached, which might have a negative influence on the joint venture and decrease potential returns to our shareholders. In the event that a venture partner has a right of first refusal to buy out the other partner, it may be unable to finance such buy-out at that time. It may also be difficult for us to sell our interest in any such joint venture or partnership or as a co-tenant in property. In addition, to the extent that our venture partner or co-tenant is an affiliate of our advisor, certain conflicts of interest will exist. Our advisor may have conflicting fiduciary obligations if we acquire properties with its affiliates. Our advisor may cause us to acquire an interest in a property through a joint venture with its affiliates. In these circumstances, our advisor will have a fiduciary duty to both us and its affiliates participating in the joint venture. The resolution of this conflict of interest may cause our advisor to sacrifice our best interest in favor of the seller of the property and therefore, we may enter into a transaction that is not in our best interest. The resolution of this conflict of interest may negatively impact our financial performance. 6 Table of Contents The fees we pay to our advisor, the Dealer Manager and other affiliates were not determined on an arm’s-length basis and therefore they may not be on the same terms we could achieve from a third-party. The compensation paid to our advisor, the Dealer Manager and other affiliates for services they provide us was not determined on an arm’s-length basis. All agreements, contracts or arrangements with our affiliates were not negotiated at arm’s length. Such agreements include, but are not limited to, our Advisory Agreement with our advisor, our dealer manager agreements with the Dealer Manager and our Property Management and Leasing Agreement with our property manager. These agreements may contain terms that are not in our best interest and may not otherwise be applicable if we entered into arm’s-length agreements. We cannot predict the amounts of compensation to be paid to our advisor and our other affiliates. Because the fees that we will pay to our advisor and our other affiliates are based in part on the level of our business activity, it is not possible to predict the amounts of compensation that we will be required to pay these entities. In addition, because key employees of our affiliates are given broad discretion to determine when to consummate a transaction, we rely on these key persons to dictate the level of our business activity. Furthermore, the fees paid to our affiliates will reduce funds available for distribution, and therefore we cannot predict precisely how such fees will impact our distributions. Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, we may be adversely affected by changes to the following factors within the industrial real estate sector: (i) economic climate; (ii) local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in the demand for industrial space; (iii) competition from other properties; (iv) increased cost of compliance with regulations; (v) the potential for liability under applicable laws; (vi) increased operating costs; and (vii) our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance. The Dealer Manager was recently formed and has not participated in many similar offerings. The Dealer Manager was formed in December 2001 and has participated in a limited number of securities offerings which include our public offerings as well as the public offerings of affiliates of Dividend Capital Trust, including Dividend Capital Realty Income Fund and Dividend Capital Realty Income Allocation Fund. Because the Dealer Manager has limited experience in prior offerings, it may be difficult to evaluate its ability to manage our public and private offerings. The Dealer Manager, which is affiliated with us, has not and will not make an independent review of us or any prospectus for any of our offerings. The Dealer Manager is one of our affiliates and has not and will not make an independent review of us or any offering under any prospectus for which we have sold shares of our common stock. Accordingly, investors do not and will not have the benefit of an independent review of the terms of any offering. Further, the due diligence investigation of us by the Dealer Manager cannot be considered to be an independent review and, therefore, may not be as meaningful as a review conducted by an unaffiliated broker-dealer or investment banker. In addition, a substantial portion of the proceeds of any offering will be paid to the Dealer Manager for managing the offering, including selling commissions, a dealer manager fee and marketing and due diligence expense reimbursements. We have not established the offering price of our common stock based on an appraised value of our properties. We have not obtained an appraisal of our properties in connection with any offering. Our board of directors determined the selling price of the common stock; however, such price may have bore no relationship to property appraisals or to any established criteria for valuing our issued or outstanding common stock. Our board of directors determined the price of our shares for our prior offerings by considering a number of factors including, but not limited to: our historic, current and anticipated dividend yields; yields provided by similar and other real 7 Table of Contents estate investments; our current and anticipated operating results; the quality, size, diversity and location of properties in our portfolio; the quality and diversity of our tenant base; our existing and anticipated debt structure; and our progress in executing our investment and operating strategy. If we have not listed our stock for public trading or created an alternative liquidity event for our shareholders by February 2013, then we will take steps to liquidate our assets. If we have not listed our common stock on a national securities exchange or an over-the-counter market, completed a sale or merger of Dividend Capital Trust in a transaction which provides our shareholders with a combination of cash and/or securities of a publicly traded company or sold substantially all of our properties for cash or other consideration by February 2013, our articles of incorporation require us to begin selling our properties and other assets and to distribute the net proceeds to our shareholders. Various economic and political conditions existing at the time we liquidate our assets may adversely affect our ability to sell assets at favorable prices. As a result, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell our assets at prices which are consistent with our estimate of the fair market value of our properties or that would provide our shareholders with any particular return. A limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover or business combination. Our articles of incorporation restrict direct or indirect ownership by one person or entity to no more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock. This restriction may discourage a change of control of Dividend Capital Trust and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for common stock on terms that might be financially attractive to shareholders or which may cause a change in our management. This ownership restriction may also prohibit business combinations that would have otherwise been approved by our board of directors and shareholders. Our current shareholders’ interests in Dividend Capital Trust may be diluted if we issue additional common stock. Our shareholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by Dividend Capital Trust in the future. Therefore, in the event that we (1) sell common stock in the future, including those issued pursuant to the distribution reinvestment plan, (2) sell securities that are convertible into common stock, (3) issue common stock in a private offering to institutional investors, (4) issue shares of common stock upon the exercise of the options granted to our independent directors or employees of our advisor and Dividend Capital Property Management LLC (our property manager) or warrants issued or that may be issued to the Dealer Manager or to participating broker-dealers, or (5) issue common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests in our partnership or one of its subsidiaries, existing shareholders and investors purchasing shares in any offering will experience dilution of their percentage ownership in Dividend Capital Trust. Depending on the terms of such transactions, most notably the offer price per share, which may be less than the price paid per share in any previous offering, and the value of our properties, existing shareholders might also experience a dilution in the book value per share of their investment in Dividend Capital Trust. Our articles of incorporation permit our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common shareholders or discourage a third-party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to our shareholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to cash distributions and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might otherwise provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. 8 Table of Contents Our board of directors has broad control over our operations and our shareholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and operations. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification, distributions, acquisitions of properties and acquisitions of businesses (including the business of our advisor or property manager). Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the shareholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our articles of incorporation, our shareholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our shareholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks our shareholders face. If we do not have sufficient capital resources from equity and debt financings for acquisitions of new properties or other assets because of our inability to retain earnings, our growth may be limited. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income. This requirement limits our ability to retain income or cash flow from operations to finance the acquisition of new properties. We will explore acquisition opportunities from time to time with the intention of expanding our operations and increasing our profitability. We anticipate that we may use debt and equity financing for such acquisitions. Consequently, if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire new properties and expand our operations will be adversely affected. Distributions payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates that apply to other corporate distributions. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 generally reduces the maximum tax rate for distributions payable by corporations to individuals to 15% through 2008. Distributions payable by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal rate applicable to the individual recipient, rather than the 15% preferential rate. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or distributions paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate distributions could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay distributions, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Payment of fees to our advisor and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution. Our advisor and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of the common stock, the selection and acquisition and disposition of our properties, and the management and leasing of our properties. They will be paid substantial fees for these services, which will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties and distribution to shareholders. For additional information about these fees, see Note 13—Related Party Transactions to the consolidated financial statements. The availability and timing of cash distributions is uncertain. We expect to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, which are deducted from cash funds generated by operations prior to computing the amount of cash distributions to be distributed to our shareholders. In addition, our board of directors, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital. We cannot assure our shareholders that sufficient cash will be available to pay distributions to them. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. Our ability to achieve our corporate objectives, including the payment of distributions, depends upon the performance of our advisor in the acquisition of our investments and the determination of any financing arrangements and upon the performance of our operating professionals and to maintain our customer base, 9 Table of Contents maintain strong occupancies and negotiate favorable leasing arrangements. Except for the investments described in our previous filings, our shareholders will have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments. You must rely entirely on the management abilities of our advisor, the property managers our advisor selects and the oversight by our board of directors. We cannot be sure that our advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if our advisor makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. The more capital we raise in any offering, the greater will be our challenge to invest all of the net offering proceeds on attractive terms. If we, through our advisor, are unable to find suitable investments promptly, we will hold the proceeds from any offering in an interest-bearing account or invest the proceeds in short-term, investment-grade investments (which are not likely to earn as high a return as we expect to earn on our real estate investments) and may, ultimately, liquidate. In such an event, our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected. We may have difficulty funding our distributions with funds provided by our operations. As a growing company, to date we have funded our quarterly distributions to investors with funds from operations and, to a lesser extent, with borrowings under our credit facility and other borrowings. Our long-term corporate strategy is to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our shareholders entirely from funds from our operations. However, if we are unsuccessful in deploying any offering proceeds we raise on an effective and efficient basis, we may continue to fund our quarterly distributions to investors from a combination of funds from operations and financing proceeds. In the event we are unable to consistently fund future quarterly distributions to investors entirely from our funds from operations, the value of our shareholders’ shares upon the possible listing of our stock, the sale of our assets or any other liquidity event may be negatively impacted. If we invest in a limited partnership as a general partner we could be responsible for all liabilities of such partnership. In some joint ventures or other investments we may make, if the entity in which we invest is a limited partnership, we may acquire all or a portion of our interest in such partnership as a general partner. As a general partner, we could be liable for all the liabilities of such partnership. Additionally, we may also be required to take our interests in other investments as a non-managing general partner as in the case of our initial investment. Consequently, we would be potentially liable for all such liabilities without having the same rights of management or control over the operation of the partnership as the managing general partner or partners may have. Therefore, we may be held responsible for all of the liabilities of an entity in which we do not have full management rights or control, and our liability may far exceed the amount or value of investment we initially made or then had in the partnership. Actions of our joint venture partners could negatively impact our performance. We are likely to enter into additional joint ventures with third parties to acquire, develop or improve properties. We may also purchase and develop properties directly or in joint ventures or through partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, but not limited to: • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce our shareholders’ returns. 10 Table of Contents We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs. Substantially all of the gross offering proceeds from our fourth public offering will be used for investment in properties and for payment of various fees and expenses. In addition, we do not anticipate that we will maintain any permanent working capital reserves. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our properties or for any other reason, we cannot assure our shareholders that such funding will be available to us. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have incurred indebtedness and expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay reduces our cash available for distributions. Additionally, since we have incurred and may continue to incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which reduces our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. We cannot assure our shareholders that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure our shareholders that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. Our derivative financial instruments used to hedge against interest rate fluctuations could reduce investors’ overall returns. We have and may continue to use derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates on loans secured by our properties. These instruments involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to perform under the terms of the derivative contract or that such arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. In addition, the possible use of such instruments may reduce the overall return on our investments. These instruments may also generate income that may not be treated as qualifying REIT income for purposes of the 75% or 95% REIT income tests. An investment in us may be subject to additional risks if we make international investments. We may purchase properties located in Mexico and Canada. Any such investment could be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments could be subject to the following risks: • changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws; • enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws restricting the ability of foreign persons or companies to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person’s or company’s country of origin; • variations in currency exchange rates; • adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest and changes in national or local governmental or economic conditions; • the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; 11 Table of Contents • the imposition of unique tax structures and changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; • general political and economic instability; • our limited experience and expertise in foreign countries relative to our experience and expertise in the United States; and • more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws. Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions could negatively affect our returns and profitability. Among others, the following market and economic challenges may adversely affect our operating results: • poor economic times may result in customer defaults under our leases and reduced demand for industrial space; • overbuilding industrial space may increase vacancies; • maintaining occupancy levels may require increased concessions, tenant improvement expenditures or reduced rental rates; and Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. Our UPREIT structure may result in potential conflicts of interest. Persons holding units in our partnership have the right to vote on certain amendments to our partnership’s Limited Partnership Agreement, as well as on certain other matters. Persons holding such voting rights may exercise them in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our shareholders. As general partner of our partnership, we will be obligated to act in a manner that is in the best interest of all partners of our partnership. Circumstances may arise in the future when the interest of limited partners in our partnership may conflict with the interests of our shareholders. For example, the timing and terms of dispositions of properties held by our partnership may result in tax consequences to certain limited partners and not to our shareholders. Our shareholders’ returns on investment may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act. These requirements include: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, recordkeeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of the offering in properties within one year of the termination of the offering such that more than 40% of our assets consist of “investment securities,” as defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. This would reduce the cash available for distribution to shareholders and possibly lower shareholder returns. 12 Table of Contents To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forgo opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. REAL ESTATE RISKS General Real Estate Risks We will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • Changes in general or local economic conditions; • Changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • Bankruptcies, financial difficulties or lease defaults by our customers; • Changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive or otherwise reduce the returns to shareholders; • Changes in operating expenses; • Changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; • Changes in the cost or availability of insurance, including coverage for terrorism, mold or asbestos; • Periods of high interest rates and tight money supply; • Customer turnover; and • General overbuilding or excess supply in the market area. For these and other reasons, we cannot assure you that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties. Competition for investments may increase costs and reduce returns. We will compete for real property investments with pension funds and their advisors, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other real estate investment trusts, real estate limited partnerships, individuals and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities. Many other competitors have greater financial resources than us and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties. Competition for investments may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and may have the effect of increasing acquisition costs reducing the rents we can charge and, as a result, reducing our shareholders’ returns. We believe the current market for acquisitions to be extremely competitive. A property that incurs a vacancy could be difficult to sell or re-lease. A property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a customer under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. In addition, certain of the properties we acquire may have some level of vacancy at the time of closing. Certain of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of a customer. We may have difficulty obtaining a new customer for any vacant space we have in our properties. If the vacancy 13 Table of Contents continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to be distributed to shareholders. In addition, the resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. We are dependent on customers for our revenue. Certain of our properties are occupied by a single customer. As a result, the success of those properties will depend on the financial stability of a single customer. Lease payment defaults by customers could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to shareholders. A default by a customer on its lease payments could force us to find an alternative source of revenue to pay any mortgage loan on the property. In the event of a customer default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs, including litigation and related expenses, in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. If a lease is terminated, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. We may not have funding for future tenant improvements. When a customer at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new customers, we will be required to expend funds to construct new tenant improvements in the vacated space. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds will be invested in real estate properties and therefore, while we intend to manage our cash position or financing availability to pay for any improvements required for re-leasing, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will have adequate sources of funding available to us for such purposes in the future. Uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect shareholder returns. Our advisor will attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, changes in the cost or availability of insurance could expose us to uninsured casualty losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, we may have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure our shareholders that any such sources of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Development and construction of properties may result in delays and increased costs and risks. We may invest in the acquisition of raw land upon which we will develop and construct improvements at a fixed contract price. In any such projects we will be subject to risks relating to the builder’s ability to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables. The builder’s failure to perform may result in legal action by us to rescind the purchase or construction contract or to enforce the builder’s obligations. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give customers the right to terminate preconstruction leases for space at a newly developed project. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such builders prior to completion of construction. Each of these factors could result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects if they are not fully leased prior to the commencement of construction. Furthermore, the price we agree to for the land will be based on projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of construction costs as well as the fair market value of the property upon completion of construction. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for the land and fail to achieve our forecast of returns due to the factors discussed above. Delays in acquisitions of properties may have adverse effects on our shareholders’ investments. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of properties could adversely affect our shareholders’ returns. Where properties are acquired prior to the start of construction, it will typically take 8 to 14 Table of Contents 18 months to complete construction and lease available space. Therefore, our shareholders could suffer delays in the payment of cash distributions attributable to those particular properties. Our articles of incorporation limit the amount we can invest in unimproved land to 10% of our total assets. Uncertain market conditions and the broad discretion of our advisor relating to the future disposition of properties could adversely affect the return on our shareholders’ investments. We expect to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as our advisor decides that a sale or other disposition is appropriate given our investment objectives. Our advisor, subject to approval of our board of directors, may exercise its discretion as to whether and when to sell a property, and we will have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except in the event of a liquidation of our properties in accordance with our articles of incorporation if we do not list our common stock, complete a sale or merger of Dividend Capital Trust in a transaction which provides our shareholders with a combination of cash and/or securities of a publicly traded company or sell substantially all of our properties for cash or other consideration by February 2013. We cannot predict the various market conditions affecting real estate investments which will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions which may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which our shareholders will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removing or remediating hazardous or toxic substances on such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated. A property owner who violates environmental laws may be subject to sanctions which may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be exposed to such costs. The cost of defending against environmental claims, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or of remediating any contaminated property could materially, adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to make our debt payments, we could lose our investment in a property. Loans obtained to fund property acquisitions will generally be secured by first mortgages on such properties. If we are unable to make our debt service payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment which in turn could cause the value of the common stock and the distributions payable to shareholders to be reduced. Certain of our existing and future indebtedness is and may be cross-collateralized and, consequently, a default on this indebtedness could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in multiple properties. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. In connection with obtaining certain financing, a lender may impose certain restrictions on us which affect our ability to incur additional debt and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Loan documents we enter into may contain negative covenants which limit our ability to further mortgage the property, replace our advisor or impose other limitations. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Some of our financing arrangements require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional 15 Table of Contents financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the existing financing on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The effect of a refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to shareholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on customers, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our customers’ operations, the existing condition of land upon acquisition, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of our shareholders’ investments. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we presently intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. If we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to shareholders and result in litigation and related expenses. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our shareholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance such debt when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance such debt on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance such debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance such debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us, or could result in the foreclosure of such properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. If a sale and leaseback transaction is recharacterized, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We may enter into sale and leaseback transactions, where we would purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a customer, a transaction structured as a sale and leaseback may be recharacterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale and leaseback was recharacterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result we would have the status of a creditor in relation to the customer. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the customer for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The customer/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. These outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our shareholders. If the sale and leaseback were recharacterized as a joint venture, we and our customer could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the customer relating to the property. The imposition of liability on us could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our shareholders. If our customers are highly leveraged, they may have a higher possibility of filing for bankruptcy or insolvency. Of our customers that experience downturns in their operating results due to adverse changes to their business or economic conditions, those that are highly leveraged may have a higher possibility of filing for bankruptcy or insolvency. In bankruptcy or insolvency, a customer may have the option of vacating a property instead of paying rent. Until such a property is released from bankruptcy, our revenues would be reduced and could cause us to reduce distributions to shareholders. We may have highly leveraged customers in the future. We may acquire properties with “lock-out” provisions which may affect our ability to dispose of the properties. We may acquire properties through contracts that could restrict our ability to dispose of the property for a period of time. These “lock-out” provisions could affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and could affect cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Lock-out provisions could also impair our ability to take actions during the lock-out period that would otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of our shares, relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. 17 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR PARTNERSHIP’S PRIVATE PLACEMENT Our partnership’s private placement subjects us to liabilities. Affiliates of our advisor have developed certain transaction structures that are designed to provide investors that own real property, either directly or indirectly through a limited liability company or a limited partnership, with the opportunity to receive limited partnership units in our partnership in exchange for their direct or indirect interests in such real property on a tax-deferred basis. These transactions depend on the interpretation of, and compliance with, extremely technical tax laws and regulations. As the general partner of our partnership, we may be subject to liability, from litigation or otherwise, as a result of these transactions, including in the event an investor in these transactions fails to qualify for the desired tax advantage. We have and may continue to acquire co-ownership interests in real property that are subject to certain co-ownership agreements which may affect our ability to operate or dispose of the property or our co-ownership interest. We have and may continue to acquire co-ownership interests, especially in connection with our partnership’s private placement, such as tenancy-in-common interests in real property, that are subject to certain co-ownership agreements. The co-ownership agreements may limit our ability to encumber, lease, or dispose or our co-ownership interest. Such agreements could affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and could affect cash available for distributions to our shareholders. The co-ownership agreements could also impair our ability to take actions that would otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of our shares, relative to the value that would result if the co-ownership agreements did not exist. FEDERAL INCOME TAX RISKS Failure to qualify as a REIT could adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. We operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2003. Although we do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to our REIT status, we have received the opinion of our special tax counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, with respect to our qualification as a REIT. This opinion was issued in connection with our fourth public offering. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or on any court. The opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel’s review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP has no obligation to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed in its opinion or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through our partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. No assurance can be given that we will qualify as a REIT for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year for which a REIT election has been made, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions paid to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to our shareholders because of the additional tax liability to us for the years involved. As a result of the additional tax liability, we 18 Table of Contents might need to borrow funds or liquidate certain investments on terms that may be disadvantageous to us in order to pay the applicable tax, and therefore we would not be compelled to make distributions under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, we must meet annual distribution requirements. To obtain the favorable tax treatment accorded to REITs, among other requirements, we normally will be required each year to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for distributions paid and by excluding net capital gains. We will be subject to federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of our capital gain net income for such year, and (c) any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we would be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of (i) the amounts actually distributed by us, plus (ii) retained amounts on which we pay income tax at the corporate level. These requirements could cause us to distribute amounts that otherwise would be spent on acquisitions or development of properties and it is possible that we might be required to borrow funds or sell assets to fund these distributions. Although we intend to make distributions sufficient to meet the annual distribution requirements and to avoid corporate income taxation on the earnings that we distribute, it is possible that we might not always be able to do so. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect our shareholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure our shareholders that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of a shareholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our common stock. Our shareholders are urged to consult with their tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in common stock. Recharacterization of transactions under our partnership’s private placement may result in a 100% tax on income from prohibited transactions, which would diminish our cash distributions to our shareholders. The Internal Revenue Service could recharacterize transactions under our partnership’s private placement such that our partnership is treated as the bona fide owner, for tax purposes, of properties acquired and resold by the entity established to facilitate the transaction. Such recharacterization could result in the income realized on these transactions by our partnership being treated as gain on the sale of property that is held as inventory or otherwise held primarily for the sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. In such event, such gain would constitute income from a prohibited transaction and would be subject to a 100% tax. If this occurs, our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. Our shareholders may have current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common stock. If our shareholders participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, our shareholders may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the common stock received. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from a “prohibited transaction” will be subject to a 100% tax. In addition, we may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes. We may also decide to retain certain gains from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such gains. In that event, our shareholders would be required to include such gains in income and would receive a corresponding credit for 19 Table of Contents their share of taxes paid by us. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by the taxable REIT subsidiary we utilize to hold fractional tenancy-in-common interests in certain of our properties will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP regarding our status as a REIT does not guarantee our ability to remain a REIT. Our special tax counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, rendered its opinion upon commencement of our fourth public offering that, commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2003, we were organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT and our actual and proposed method of operation has enabled and will enable us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT. This opinion is based upon our representations as to the manner in which we will be owned, invest in assets, and operate, among other things. The validity of the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that we will satisfy the REIT requirements in any one taxable year. Also, the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represents counsel’s legal judgment based on the law in effect as of the date of the commencement of our fourth public offering, is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, and could be subject to modification or withdrawal based on future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the federal income tax laws, any of which could be applied retroactively. If our partnership was classified as a “publicly traded partnership” under the Internal Revenue Code, our status as a REIT and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Our partnership is organized as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Even though our partnership will not elect to be treated as an association taxable as a corporation, it may be taxed as a corporation if it is deemed to be a “publicly traded partnership.” A publicly traded partnership is a partnership whose interests are traded on an established securities market or are considered readily tradable on a secondary market or the substantial equivalent thereof. We believe and currently intend to take the position that our partnership should not be classified as a publicly traded partnership because interests in our partnership are not traded on an established securities market, and our partnership should satisfy certain safe harbors which prevent a partnership’s interests from being treated as readily tradable on an established securities market or substantial equivalent thereof. No assurance can be given, however, that the Internal Revenue Service would not assert that our partnership constitutes a publicly traded partnership, or that facts and circumstances will not develop which could result in our partnership being treated as a publicly traded partnership. If the Internal Revenue Service were to assert successfully that our partnership is a publicly traded partnership, and substantially all of our partnership’s gross income did not consist of the specified types of passive income, our partnership would be treated as an association taxable as a corporation and would be subject to corporate tax at the entity level. In such event, the character of our assets and items of gross income would change and would result in a termination of our status as a REIT. In addition, the imposition of a corporate tax on our partnership would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Foreign investors may be subject to Foreign Investment Real Property Tax Act (“ FIRPTA”) tax on sale of common shares if we are unable to qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to a tax, known as FIRPTA tax, on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT.” A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by 20 Table of Contents non-U.S. holders. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by a foreign investor on a sale of our common stock would be subject to FIRPTA tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common stock. RETIREMENT PLAN RISKS There are special considerations that apply to pension or profit sharing trusts or IRAs investing in common stock. If shareholders are investing the assets of an IRA, pension, profit sharing, 401(k), Keogh or other qualified retirement plan, they should satisfy themselves that: • They have analyzed to their satisfaction the question of whether their investment will not produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; • Their investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • Their investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing your plan or IRA, including their plan’s investment policy; • Their investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA; • Their investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • Their investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code; and • They will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 