Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and Operations The failure to manage effectively the risk of credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and credit ratings. We cannot assure you that any of the loss mitigation methods we use in managing our credit swap portfolio will be effective. If, for example, multiple credit defaults or other credit events that exceed our expectations occur within a short time period, the payments we would be required to make under the related credit swaps could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and credit ratings. Moreover, even though we may identify a heightened risk of default with respect to a particular Reference Entity, our ability to limit our losses, through hedging or terminating the credit swap, before a default or other credit event actually occurs could be limited by inadequate liquidity in the credit swap market. As we assume other types of exposure, such as credit swaps referencing obligations of Reference Entities that are below investment grade, we may not have the same or similar loss limitation methods. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage higher risks of credit losses effectively or that any of our existing loss mitigation methods will be effective in any of these new areas. Primus Financial’s operating guidelines and S&P’s and Moody’s capital requirements are subject to change and may limit our growth. Additionally, a decline in our current counterparty credit ratings from S&P and Moody’s would likely have a material adverse impact on our credit swap business and cause our revenues and earnings to decrease. In order to obtain and maintain its counterparty credit ratings, Primus Financial has adopted operating guidelines, the terms of which have been agreed upon with S&P and Moody’s. We cannot assure you that S&P and Moody’s will not require changes to Primus Financial’s operating guidelines or that, if such changes are made, Primus Financial will be able to comply with them. For example, if S&P or Moody’s were to require Primus Financial to maintain additional capital to retain its ‘‘AAA/Aaa’’ ratings, we cannot be certain that we could raise additional capital when needed. Moreover, if Primus Financial suffers losses to such an extent that it is not in compliance with the c apital criteria of its operating guidelines and it is not able to cure the capital deficiency in a timely manner, its operating guidelines require it to cease entering into new credit swaps (except for limited hedging transactions, as described in the operating guidelines). If the foregoing occurs, S&P or Moody’s could reduce or withdraw their ‘‘AAA/Aaa’’ credit ratings of Primus Financial which, in turn, would likely have a material adverse effect on our credit swap business and our financial performance. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we require additional capital, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Rating agencies could change their rules making it extremely difficult for us to raise capital. We are dependent upon counterparties’ perception of our creditworthiness. In establishing relationships, Primus Financial’s counterparties generally analyze its financial condition prior to entering into a credit swap, establish credit limits, and monitor the appropriateness of these limits on an ongoing basis in order to limit the risk that Primus Financial will be financially unable to make payments in accordance with its credit swap. Once a counterparty reaches its credit exposure limit to Primus Financial, the counterparty may not enter into any additional transactions with Primus Financial until the counterparty credit limit is increased. In the event these counterparty credit limits are not increased as Primus Financial’s credit swap portfolio expands, or if limits are 21 Table of Contents reduced, our financial performance would suffer. In addition, while there are buyers of credit swaps, such as our existing counterparties, that do not require us to post collateral, there are some buyers, including some of the leading participants in the credit swap market, that require even the highest rated counterparties from which they purchase credit swaps to post collateral. Under its operating guidelines, Primus Financial cannot enter into credit swaps with any counterparty that would require it to post collateral. If Primus Financial’s existing counterparties were to require it to post collateral, it may have a material adverse effect on us and our financial condition. We depend on a limited number of key executives. The loss of any of our key personnel, including Thomas Jasper, our chief executive officer, other directors, executive officers, or other key employees, many of whom have long-standing relationships with our counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on us. As our business develops and expands, we believe that our success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to employ key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have ‘‘key person’’ life insurance to cover our executive officers. We do not have employment contracts wi th all of our executive officers and key employees. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Charles Truett, Head of Portfolio Management and a member of the Operating Committee of Primus Asset Management, has announced that he will be retiring and he will leave our employ at the end of the first quarter of 2007. We have commenced a search to identify a replacement for him. Our financial results depend on certain market conditions and growth in the credit swap market, which are not within our control. Our financial results depend to a significant degree upon the premiums that we receive on credit swaps in our portfolio. Historically, these premiums have been a function of credit spreads that change over time as a result of a variety of factors that we do not control, including changes in the overall economy, supply and demand conditions in the credit swap market and other factors affecting the corporate credit markets in general. If an unusually low credit swap premium environment develops and persists, we may not be able to achieve profitable growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the credit swap market will continue to grow as it has historically, or at all, or that it will not decline. Any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Variations in credit swap premiums could cause our earnings to be inconsistent and our share price to fluctuate significantly. Any event causing credit swap premiums to widen or tighten on an underlying Reference Entity in our portfolio will affect the fair value of related credit swaps and may increase the volatility of our reported U.S. GAAP earnings and, in turn, our share price. Common events that may cause our credit swap premiums to fluctuate include changes in national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, credit events within an industry, changes in a Reference Entity’s operating results, credit rating, cost of funds, management or any other factors leading investors to revise expectations about a Reference Entity’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations when due. Changes in fair value of our cre dit swaps are recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated income statement. Wide fluctuations in the premium levels that we receive on credit swaps in our portfolio may have a material effect on our reported results of operations. Certain of our principal shareholders control us. At December 31, 2006, our principal shareholders (by which we mean those institutions that owned shares prior to our initial public offering in October 2004), directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them own approximately 47% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, 22 Table of Contents these shareholders, collectively, are able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers, amalgamations or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot assure you that the interests of our principal shareholders will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. The commercial and investment activities of some of our principal shareholders may compete with our business. Certain of our principal shareholders or their affiliates engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in competition with us. Some of our principal shareholders or their affiliates may in the future sponsor other entities engaged in the credit swap business, some of which may compete with us. Certain of our shareholders and their affiliates have also entered into agreements with and made investments in numerous companies that may compete with us. Our shareholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our principal shareholders continue to own a significant a mount of our outstanding common shares, they will continue to be able to influence strongly or effectively control our decisions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all available funds for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Additionally, we are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than our ownership of all of our subsidiaries. There are certain restrictions on Primus Financial contained in its operating guidelines, which could affect our ability to pay dividends in future years. The payment of dividends and making of distributions by each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re is limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Any determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependen t upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We may not be able to continue to compete in the credit swap market. The credit swap market is highly competitive. We face competition from providers of similar products, including credit swap dealers of commercial and investment banks. Many of these competitors are more established, have substantially greater financial resources than we do and have established ongoing relationships with market participants giving them ready access to the credit swap marketplace. In addition, while there are significant business obstacles to overcome in establishing a similar enterprise to ours, there are no regulatory impediments for any new entrants to the credit swap market. To the extent new participants enter the credit swap market, competition may intensify. While we believe we have a number of competitive ad vantages over new entrants, there can be no assurance that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. There can be no assurance that our diversification strategy will be effective or profitable. We plan to further diversify through the development and marketing of ancillary businesses, such as asset management and trading and, in select instances, potentially by acquisition. Each new business line may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our 23 Table of Contents senior management to acquire or develop a new line of business and integrate it with our operations. We may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in implementing our diversification strategy that could reduce our profitability and ultimately cause the strategy to fail. These complications may include obtaining rating agency approvals and required licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. The expansion of our asset management business may require working capital as we build teams of portfolio managers, and supporting resources, prior to receipt of asset management fees. Also, we may be expected to co-invest in vehicles we manage, possibly in a junior or first loss position, and the capital so invested may be exposed to the risk of significant losses if the vehicles perform poorly. Our operations may become subject to increased regulation under federal and state law or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences for us. There can be no assurance that new legal or administrative interpretations or regulations under the United States commodities and securities laws, or other applicable legislation on the federal or state levels, or in Bermuda, or in the United Kingdom, or other applicable jurisdictions, will not result in administrative burdens, increased costs, or other adverse consequences for us. Periodically, proposals have been made in Congress to enact legislation that would increase regulation of the credit swap market. We cannot predict what restrictions any such legislation, if adopted, would impose and the effect those restrictions would have on our business. In addition, federal statutes allocate responsibility for insurance regulation t o the states and state insurance regulators may seek to assert jurisdiction over our credit swaps. Again, we cannot predict what effect any such regulation would have on our business. Credit swap buyers typically use credit swaps to manage risk and regulatory capital requirements that limit their credit exposure to a Reference Entity. Regulatory changes that modify the permissible limits of credit risk exposure, or affect the use of credit swaps to reduce risk, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that we are not required to be registered as an ‘‘investment company’’ under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are required to so register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure, restrictions on our investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance requirements that could limit our growth and increase our costs. There is no assurance that we could function effectively if we are required to register as an investment company. We may fail to execute our strategy in our newer lines of business, which could impair our future financial results. We have recently added a number of new lines of business, including writing credit swaps with respect to ABS, participating in warehouse loan financing arrangements with respect to CLO transactions and trading in various debt obligations including, among others, leveraged loans and high yield debt securities. Primus Financial recently received rating agency approval to issue credit swaps referencing ABS and, as a result, has begun selling credit swaps against ABS having an assigned rating of ‘‘BBB/Baa’’ (or the equivalent thereof) or better from a recognized rating agency. ABS is a new asset class for us and our experience with issuing credit default swaps against this type of fixed income security is therefore limited. Although we intend to issue credit swaps against investment grade ABS, an investment grade rating of an ABS does not guarantee that defaults and other credit events will not occur. Some of the loans collateralizing the ABS may be sub-prime mortgages, second lien mortgages or other loans that do n ot conform to the standards of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, the primary purchaser of residential mortgage obligations. If a series of credit events, including defaults, were to occur that lead to the liquidation of an ABS pool for which we had issued a credit swap, those loans that did not meet Fannie Mae guidelines may not be readily marketable. In recent months there have been reports of a significant increase in the default level of sub-prime and 24 Table of Contents second mortgage loans. ABS require a different type of credit analysis, and present different types of credit risk than do the corporate debt obligations that have been the subject of our usual credit swap transactions. If we fail to evaluate properly the risks posed by ABS in respect of which we issue credit default swaps, we may incur losses which, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. PRS Trading Strategies commenced operations in January 2006. PRS Trading Strategies trades in a broad range of fixed income products, including credit default swaps, leveraged loans and investment grade and speculative grade debt securities, among others. These trading activities are new to us and are not yet profitable. If our trading strategies continue to incur losses over a protracted period, it could have an adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. In addition, PRS Trading Strategies may from time to time assume certain risks of loss relating to loan financing arrangements. Although we expect that our potential losses will generally be capped, these arrangements expose our business to risks that could ha ve a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Taxation Our status as a PFIC may result in significant additional tax costs for shareholders who are United States taxpayers. Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda are likely to be and remain passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, for United States federal income tax purposes. There are potentially adverse United States federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC for a shareholder who is a United States taxpayer. These consequences include the following: (1) if a shareholder makes a ‘‘qualified electing fund,’’ or QEF, election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting an allocable share of the income of Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the share holder, (2) if a shareholder makes a mark-to-market election with respect to Primus Guaranty, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting any year-end increases in the price of our common shares, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder (moreover, it is unclear how such an election would affect the shareholder with respect to Primus Bermuda), and (3) if a shareholder does not make a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, he or she may incur significant additional United States federal income taxes with respect to dividends on, or gain from, the sale or other disposition of, our common shares, or with respect to dividends from Primus Bermuda to us, or with respect to our gain on any sale or other disposition of Primus Bermuda shares. If we are found to be engaged in a United States business, we may be liable for significant United States taxes. We believe that Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, both directly and through Primus Guaranty’s ownership interest in PRS Trading Strategies (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Guaranty), Primus Bermuda’s indirect ownership interest in Primus Financial (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership interest), and Primus Bermuda’s ownership interest in PGUK (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Bermuda), will operate their businesses in a manner that should not result in their being treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States for U.S. fede ral income tax purposes. Consequently, we do not expect to pay U.S. corporate income or branch profits tax on Primus Financial’s, PRS Trading Strategies’ or PGUK’s income. However, because the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is fact-based and there are no definitive standards for making such a determination, there can be no assurance that the IRS, will not contend successfully that Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies or PGUK are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. The maximum combined rate of U.S. 25 Table of Contents corporate federal, state and local income tax that could apply to Primus Financial, Primus Bermuda, Primus Guaranty, PRS Trading Strategies or PGUK, were they found to be engaged in a United States business in New York City and subject to income tax, is currently approximately 46%. This combined income tax rate does not include U.S. branch profits tax that would be imposed on Primus Bermuda, were Primus Financial or PGUK, found to be engaged in a U.S. business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Bermuda, or that would be imposed on Primus Guaranty were PRS Trading Strategies found to be engaged in a U.S. business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Guaranty. The branch profits tax, were it to apply, would apply at the rate of 30% on amounts deemed distributed. If the IRS successfully challenges the treatment Primus Financial has adopted for its credit swap transactions, the timing and character of taxable income recognized by Primus Financial could be adversely affected. Consistent with its treatment of the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial as the sale of options for United States federal income tax purposes, we have determined that in general Primus Financial will recognize income or loss as a protection seller only upon occurrence of a credit event under or termination of the credit swaps. There is no definitive authority in support of the treatment by Primus Financial of its credit swaps as options for United States federal income tax purposes, and we do not intend to seek a ruling from the IRS on this point. In addition, the IRS has been studying the treatment of derivative transactions generally, including credit swaps, and has issued a notice requesting submissions from taxpayers regardi ng the manner in which they conduct their credit swap activities and indicating that the United States Department of the Treasury and the IRS are contemplating issuing specific guidance in this area. No assurance can be given as to whether or when such guidance may be issued, whether it would be applied retroactively or whether it will be adverse to Primus Financial. Certain proposals under discussion could be inconsistent with the tax treatment adopted by Primus Financial. If the IRS were to assert successfully that the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial should be treated differently or these proposals were adopted, (1) the timing of the income recognized by Primus Financial could be accelerated, (2) the character of this income could be altered and (3) Primus Bermuda, as a non-United States person, could be subject to United States income tax, or withholding tax at the rate of 30%. In addition, were these changes in character to apply and were Primus Bermuda (through its investment in Primus Financial) found to be engaged in a United States trade or business, Primus Bermuda’s recognition of taxable income would be accelerated. Risks Related to our Status as a Bermuda Company It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Because Primus Guaranty is organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Primus Guaranty based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against Primus Guaranty or its directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, or would hear actions against Primus Guaranty or those persons ba sed on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of United States courts and some remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including some remedies available under United States federal securities 26 Table of Contents laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers in the first instance for violation of United States federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. United States persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than United States persons who are shareholders of a United States corporation. The Companies Act 1981, as amended, of Bermuda, or the Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, United States persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would United States persons who own common shares of a United States corporation. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then, subject to certain limitations, the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Re or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certai n that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union are considering measures that might increase our taxes and reduce our net income. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a ‘‘Global Forum,’’ Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of a ny aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 