Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. If the interest payments on our interest-bearing liabilities increase relative to the interest we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, a significant increase in market interest rates could adversely affect net interest income. Conversely, a significant decrease in market interest rates could result in increased net interest income. We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, however, changes in market interest rates are neither predictable or controllable and may have an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Prevailing interest rates may significantly affect the overall demand for loans and could also impact the extent to which borrowers repay and refinance loans. Loan prepayments and refinancings, as well as prepayments of mortgage-backed securities, may increase in a declining interest rate environment. Call provisions associated with our investment in U.S. government securities and agency obligations and corporate securities may also negatively impact net interest income in a declining interest rate environment. Such prepayment, refinancing and security call activity may negatively impact the yield of our loan portfolio and investment and mortgage-backed security portfolios as we would reinvest the prepaid funds in a lower interest rate environment. Additionally, adjustable-rate mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities generally contain interim and lifetime caps that limit the amount interest rates can increase or decrease at repricing dates. In a low interest rate environment, our level of core deposits may decline if our depositors seek higher yielding instruments or other investment products we are unable to offer. This may increase our cost of funds and decrease our net interest margin to the extent that alternative funding sources are utilized to fund our business activities. In an increasing interest rate environment, depositors tend to prefer longer term, higher costing time deposits which could adversely affect our net interest income if rates were to subsequently decline. Our focus on loans with relatively higher yields, adjustable interest rates and/or shorter terms to maturity increases our exposure to credit risk. These loans include second mortgage residential, multi-family residential, commercial real estate and land, construction, business, agricultural, warehouse mortgage lines of credit and consumer loans. These loans generally involve a greater degree of risk than fully-underwritten one-to-four family residential loans and typically have higher principal payments. Repayment of multi-family residential, commercial real estate and land, construction and agricultural loans generally is dependent upon sufficient income from the property to cover operating expenses and debt service. Our investment in construction loans significantly increased during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Risk of loss on construction loans is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value when completed or developed compared to the projected cost (including interest) of the construction and other assumptions, including the approximate time to sell or lease the properties. Additionally, changes in the local economies in which loan collateral resides, which is outside of the control of the lender and borrower, could also affect the value of the collateral for the loan or the future cash flow of the affected property and result in a higher level of nonperforming loans. An inadequate allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers may be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure full repayment. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses which is based on our historical loan loss experience for each group of loans as further adjusted for specific factors, including the following: • Trends and levels of delinquent, nonperforming or "impaired" loans; • Trends and levels of charge-offs and recoveries; • Trends in volume and underwriting terms or guarantees for loans; • Impact of changes in underwriting standards, risk tolerances or other changes in lending practices; • Changes in the value of collateral securing loans; 34 • Total loans outstanding and the volume of loan originations; • Type, size, terms and geographic concentration of loans held; • Changes in qualifications or experience of the lending staff; • Changes in local or national economic or industry conditions; • Number of loans requiring heightened management oversight; • Changes in credit concentration; and • Changes in regulatory requirements. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We can make no assurances that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. Competition could result in our loan portfolios and deposit base declining. We face increasing competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Our market area has a high density of financial institutions, some of which have greater financial resources, name recognition and market presence than us, and all of which are our competitors. Particularly intense competition exists for deposits and in all of the lending products we currently offer. Our competition for loans comes primarily from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies and credit unions. Our most direct competition for deposits historically has come from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. In addition, we face competition for deposits from products offered by brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries, such as money market and other mutual funds and annuities. As a result of the competitive environment in which we operate, no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to increase our loan portfolio and deposit base. If economic conditions decline, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operating results are affected by national and local economic and competitive conditions, including changes in market interest rates, the strength of the local economy, governmental policies of the communities in which we do business and actions of regulatory authorities. A decline in the local or national economy could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including through a decreased demand for loans or increased competition for loans, increased nonperforming loans and loan losses and resulting additional provisions for loan losses and for losses on real estate owned. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for our mortgage loans are located could adversely affect our borrower’s ability to repay and the value of the collateral. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Legislative and regulatory issues could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS as our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, which insures our deposits. As a member of the FHLBank, we must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Board and the FHLBank. Regulation by these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Our activities are also regulated under consumer protections laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. A sufficient claim against us under these laws could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 