D. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares should be regarded as highly speculative and is suitable only for those investors who are able to sustain a total loss of their investment. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, when evaluating us and our business and prospects. Any of the following risks, as well as risks not currently known to us, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business We have incurred net losses since our incorporation in 2001 and we may not be profitable in the future. We incurred a net loss of $44.6 million for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2006, and net losses of $49.6 million, $30.6 million, $70.1 million and $114.7 million in fiscal 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We may not be able to achieve profitability or, if achieved, may not be able to sustain profitability. We have incurred restructuring charges in each of the previous five fiscal years, in the quarter ending October 31, 2006, and may incur additional restructuring charges in the future. Our future success in attaining profitability and growing our revenues and market share for our solutions depends, among other things, upon our ability to develop solutions that have a competitive advantage, to build our brand image and reputation, to attract orders from new and existing customers and to reduce our costs as a proportion of our revenue by, among other things, increasing efficiency in design, component sourcing, manufacturing and assembly cost processes. - 3 - Table of Contents A key component of our strategy is our focus on the development and marketing of IP-based communications solutions and related services, and this strategy may not be successful or may adversely affect our business. We are focused on the development and sales of IP-based communications solutions. Our operating results may be adversely affected if the market opportunity for IP-based communications solutions and services does not develop in the way we anticipate. IP-based communications systems currently constitute a small percentage of global installed large enterprise telephony systems. If IP-based communications do not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace as an alternative replacement option for traditional business telephony systems, our overall revenues and operating results will be adversely affected. Because this market opportunity is in its early stages, we cannot predict whether: • the demand for IP-based communications solutions and services will grow as fast as we anticipate; • continuing reductions in long-distance and local toll charges may adversely affect sales of certain of our solutions to customers focused on those cost savings; • current or future competitors or new technologies will cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; • other technologies will become more accepted or standard in our industry; or • we will be able to achieve a leadership or profitable position as this opportunity develops. Our solutions may fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The markets for our solutions are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and short product life cycles. Therefore, our operating results depend, among other things, on existing and emerging markets, our ability to develop and introduce new solutions and our ability to reduce the production costs of existing solutions. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict and respond to our customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new solutions before knowing whether our investments will result in solutions the market will accept. The success of new solutions depends on several factors, including new application and product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these solutions, differentiation of new solutions from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these solutions. We may not be able to successfully identify new market opportunities for our solutions, develop and bring new solutions to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our solutions. Because we depend primarily upon one outside contract manufacturer to manufacture our products, our operations could be delayed or interrupted if we encounter problems with this contractor. We do not have any internal manufacturing capabilities, and we rely upon a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products. Substantially all of our products are currently manufactured by BreconRidge Manufacturing Solutions Corporation, a company of - 4 - Table of Contents which Dr. Terence H. Matthews, our principal shareholder and the chairman of our board of directors, has an approximate 28.23% ownership interest. Our manufacturing agreement with BreconRidge expires on December 31, 2007, and may or may not be renewed. Our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed or interrupted as a result of a variety of factors relating to our contract manufacturers, in particular BreconRidge, including: • our contract manufacturers not being required to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price; • our failure to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships; • our contract manufacturers experiencing delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations; • lead-times for required materials and components varying significantly and being dependent on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time; • overestimating our forecast requirements resulting in excess inventory and related carrying charges; • underestimating our requirements, resulting in our contract manufacturers having inadequate materials and components required to produce our products, or overestimating our requirements, resulting in charges assessed by the contract manufacturers or liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins; and • the possible absence of adequate capacity and reduced control over component availability, quality assurances, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. The addition of manufacturing locations or other contract manufacturers would increase the complexity of our supply chain management. If any of our contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products in required volumes and quality levels, we will have to identify, qualify, select and implement acceptable alternative manufacturers, which would likely be time consuming and costly. In addition, an alternate source may not be available to us or may not be in a position to satisfy our production requirements at commercially reasonable prices and quality. Therefore, any significant interruption in manufacturing would result in us being unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components. If these components are not available on a timely basis, or at all, we may not be able to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for key components of our products. In addition, our contract manufacturers often acquire these components through purchase orders and may have no long-term commitments regarding supply or pricing from their suppliers. Lead-times for various components may lengthen, which may make certain components scarce. As component demand increases and lead-times become longer, our suppliers may increase component costs. We also depend on anticipated product orders to determine our materials requirements. Lead-times for limited-source materials and components can be as long as six months, vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for a component at a given time. From time to time, shortages in allocations of components have resulted in delays in filling orders. Shortages and delays in obtaining components in the future could impede our ability to meet customer orders. Any of these sole - 5 - Table of Contents source or limited source suppliers could stop producing the components, cease operations entirely, or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors. As a result, these sole source and limited source suppliers may stop selling their components to our contract manufacturers at commercially reasonable prices, or at all. Any such interruption, delay or inability to obtain these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and reduce margins realized. Delay in the delivery of, or lack of access to, software or other intellectual property licensed from our suppliers could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver our solutions on a timely and reliable basis. Our business may be harmed by a delay in delivery of software applications from one or more of our suppliers. Many of our solutions are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various components in our solutions. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, the inclusion in our solutions of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights to our solutions. Non-exclusive licenses also allow our suppliers to develop relationships with, and supply similar or the same software applications to, our competitors. Software licenses could terminate in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of a software supplier or other third party licensor. We have not entered into source code escrow agreements with every software supplier or third party licensor. In the event that software suppliers or other third party licensors terminate their relationships with us, are unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or the licenses are otherwise terminated, we may be unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customer orders. Our success is dependent on our intellectual property. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could seriously harm our ability to compete and our financial success. Our success depends on the intellectual property in the solutions and services that we develop and sell. We rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. Our present protective measures may not be enforceable or adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or independent third-party development of the same or similar technology. Even if our patents are held valid and enforceable, others may be able to design around these patents or develop products competitive to our products but that are outside the scope of these patents. We make use of some open source software code under various open source licenses available to the general public. A characteristic of an open source license is that it does not provide any indemnification to the licensee against third-party claims of intellectual property infringement. Some open source licenses require the licensee to disclose the licensee’s source code derived from such open source code, and failure to comply with the terms of such licenses can result in the licensee being stopped from distributing products that contain the open source code or being forced to freely disseminate enhancements that were made to the open source - 6 - Table of Contents code. Further, the use of open source software in our solutions may expose those solutions to security risks. Many foreign jurisdictions offer less protection of intellectual property rights than Canada and the United States, and the protection provided to our proprietary technology by the laws of these and other foreign jurisdictions may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Preventing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology may be difficult, time consuming and costly, in part because it may be difficult to discover unauthorized use by third parties. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of unenforceability or invalidity. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. Our business may be harmed if we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends, in part, upon our not infringing intellectual property rights owned by others. Our competitors, as well as a number of individuals, patent holding companies and consortiums, own, or claim to own, intellectual property relating to our industry. Aggressive patent litigation is not uncommon in our industry and can be disruptive. We cannot determine with certainty whether any existing third-party patent, or the issuance of new third party patents, would require us to alter our solutions, obtain licenses or discontinue the sale of the affected applications and products. We have received notices, and we may receive additional notices, containing allegations that our solutions are subject to patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, including competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums. In addition, in June 2006, one of our competitors filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia alleging that we are infringing on certain of its patents and requesting damages (treble damages in respect of alleged willful infringement of the patents), injunctive relief, attorney’s fees, costs and expenses, and such further relief against us as the court deems just and proper. See Item 8.A. “Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” for a more complete description of this proceeding. Our success also depends, in part, upon our customers’ freedom to use our products. For example, certain claims have been asserted against end-users within our industry and demands for the payment of licensing fees have been made of end-users who have implemented our solutions. We generally agree to indemnify and defend our customers to the extent a claim for infringement is brought against our customers with respect to our solutions. Infringement claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) have been and may in the future be asserted or prosecuted against us or our customers by third parties. Some of these third parties, including competitors, patent holding companies and consortiums, have, or have access to, substantially greater resources than we do and may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert our management’s attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages and could be prevented from selling some or all of - 7 - Table of Contents our solutions. In addition, an infringer of a United States patent may be subject to treble damages and attorney’s fees if the infringement is found to be willful. We may also be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, in order to resolve such proceedings, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties or substantially modify or rename our solutions in order to avoid infringement. Moreover, license agreements with third parties may not include all intellectual property rights that may be issued to or owned by the licensors, and future disputes with these parties are possible. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to modify or rename our solutions successfully. This could prevent us from selling some or all of our solutions. Current or future negotiations with third parties to establish license or cross license arrangements, or to renew existing licenses, may not be successful and we may not be able to obtain or renew a license on satisfactory terms, or at all. If required licenses cannot be obtained, or if existing licenses are not renewed, litigation could result. Any litigation relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, could at a minimum be costly and would divert the attention and efforts of management and our technical personnel. An adverse determination in any litigation or proceeding could prevent us from making, using or selling some or all of our solutions and subject us to damage assessments. We rely on our channel partners for the majority of our sales, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of channel partners. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived through our channel partners, most of which also sell our competitors’ products. Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these channel partners. The loss of or reduction in sales to these channel partners could materially reduce our revenues. Our competitors may in some cases be effective in causing resellers or potential resellers to favor their products or prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. If we fail to maintain relationships with these channel partners, fail to develop new relationships with channel partners in new markets or expand the number of channel partners in existing markets, or if we fail to manage, train or provide appropriate incentives to existing channel partners or if these channel partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our solutions may decrease and our operating results would suffer. The most likely potential channel partners for us are those businesses engaged in the voice communications business or the data communications business. Many potential channel partners in the voice communications business have established relationships with our competitors and may not be willing to invest the time and resources required to train their staff to effectively market our solutions and services. Potential channel partners engaged in the data communications business are less likely to have established relationships with our competitors, but where they are unfamiliar with the voice communications business, they may require substantially more training and other resources to be qualified to sell our solutions. We have been using our channel partners to sell our solutions to small and medium-sized businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop channel partners to sell to large enterprises or that our existing channel partners will be effective in selling to large enterprises. In addition, as sales of software - 8 - Table of Contents applications become increasingly important to us, we may need to find channel partners skilled in the sale and implementation of such software applications. Design defects, errors, failures or “bugs,” which may be difficult to detect, may occur in our solutions. We produce highly complex solutions that incorporate both hardware and software. Software can contain bugs that can interfere with expected operations. Our pre-shipment testing programs may not be adequate to detect all defects in individual applications and products or systematic defects that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in solutions that we had shipped. Any future remediation may have a material impact on our business. Our inability to cure an application or product defect could result in the failure of an application or product line, the temporary or permanent withdrawal from an application, product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or application or product reengineering expenses. The sale and support of applications and products containing defects and errors may result in product liability claims and warranty claims. Our insurance may not cover or may be insufficient to cover claims that are successfully asserted against us or our contracted suppliers and manufacturers. We face intense competition from many competitors and we may not be able to compete effectively against these competitors. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. We compete against many companies, including Cisco Systems, Inc., Nortel Networks Corporation, Avaya Inc., 3Com Corp, Alcatel, Inter-Tel, Incorporated and Siemens AG. In addition, because the market for our solutions is subject to rapidly changing technologies, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in the business communications market, including companies that currently compete in other sectors of the information technology, communications or software industries, mobile communications companies, or communications companies that serve residential rather than business customers. Several of our existing competitors have, and many of our future competitors may have, greater financial, personnel, research, and other resources, more well-established brands or reputations and broader customer bases than we have. As a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of these competitors may also have customer bases that are more geographically balanced than ours and therefore may be less affected by an economic downturn in a particular region. Competitors with greater resources may also be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot match or do not offer. In addition, existing customers of data communications companies that compete against us may be more inclined to purchase business communications solutions from their current data communications vendor than from us. Also, as voice and data communications converge, we may face competition from systems integrators that were traditionally focused on data network integration. We cannot predict which competitors may enter our markets in the future, what form the competition may take or whether we will be - 9 - Table of Contents able to respond effectively to the entry of new competitors or the rapid evolution in technology and product development that has characterized our markets. Competition from existing and potential market entrants may take many forms, including large bundled offerings that incorporate applications and products similar to those that we offer. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share, we may be required to lower our prices or offer other favorable terms to compete effectively, which would reduce our margins and could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may suffer if our strategic alliances are not successful. We have a number of strategic alliances and continue to pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. If a strategic alliance fails to perform as expected or if the relationship is terminated, we could experience delays in product availability or impairment of our relationships with customers. In addition, we may face increased competition if a third party acquires one or more of our strategic partners or if our competitors enter into additional successful strategic relationships. Our operations in international markets involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control. We do business in over 90 countries and are increasing our activities in foreign jurisdictions. Accordingly, our future results could be materially and adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors relating to international business operations, including: • political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region; • macroeconomic conditions adversely affecting geographies where we do business; • higher costs of doing business in foreign countries; • infringement claims on foreign patents, copyrights, or trademark rights; • difficulties in managing operations across disparate geographic areas; • difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights through foreign legal systems; • trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from or to various countries; • adverse tax consequences; • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • military conflict, terrorist activities, natural disasters and widespread medical epidemics; and • our ability to recruit and retain channel partners in foreign jurisdictions. Our competitive position may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, and our current currency hedging strategy may not be sufficient to counter such fluctuations. A significant portion of our business is conducted, and a substantial portion of our operating expenses are payable, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Due to the substantial volatility of - 10 - Table of Contents currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future sales and expenses. We use financial instruments, principally forward exchange contracts, in our management of foreign currency exposure. These contracts primarily require us to purchase and sell certain foreign currencies with or for U.S. dollars at contracted rates. We may be exposed to a credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties of these contracts. These financial instruments may not adequately manage our foreign currency exposure. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully manage currency fluctuations in the future. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated, and the results of one period may not provide a reliable indicator of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results have historically fluctuated and are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. A number of factors may cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including: • the fact that an individual order or contract can represent a substantial amount of revenues for that period; • the size, timing and shipment of individual orders; • changes in pricing or discount levels by us or our competitors; • foreign currency exchange rates; • the mix of products sold by us; • the timing of the announcement, introduction and delivery of new products and/or product enhancements by us and our competitors; and • general economic conditions. As a result of the above factors, a quarterly or yearly comparison of our results of operations is not necessarily meaningful. We may require additional sources of funds if our sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund our operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet unanticipated working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. If we need to secure additional sources of equity or debt financing, our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions and our operating performance. Additional financing may not be available on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. If we were to incur high levels of debt, we would require a larger portion of our operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. The increased use of cash to pay indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as research and development and capital expenditures. In addition, debt instruments may contain covenants or other restrictions that affect our business operations. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. - 11 - Table of Contents The exercise of redemption rights by one or more of our convertible noteholders would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. Under the terms of our convertible notes, in the event of a default, the holders of the convertible notes have the right to require us to redeem all or a portion of the convertible notes outstanding and, in the event of any redemption deficiency, enforce the security interest held by them against our assets and certain of our subsidiaries. The maximum amount we would be required to pay the holders of the convertible notes in the event of a default is $55 million plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, in the event of a fundamental change that occurs prior to April 28, 2010, each convertible noteholder will have the option to either convert all or a portion of the holder’s convertible notes into common shares or obligate us to repurchase all or a portion of the convertible notes and, in the former case, will also be entitled to receive from us a premium in the form of additional common shares or cash at our option. Under the terms of the convertible notes, a fundamental change includes the sale of all or substantially all of our property or assets, a change of control, a shareholder-approved liquidation or dissolution, a merger or acquisition, or the number of our common shares held directly or indirectly by Dr. Matthews falling below 115,000,000 (subject to adjustments for stock splits, consolidations or other similar adjustments). See Item 10.C. “Material Contracts – Senior Secured Convertible Note Transaction” for a summary of the principal terms of our convertible notes, including the events of default. The exercise of put rights held by certain of our shareholders would have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. The holders of 10,000,000 common shares and certain of our preferred shares have the right pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement to require us to purchase all or any portion of such shares if we have not completed an initial public offering by May 1, 2007. The exercise of these put rights, and the related cost to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The exercise of conversion rights by one or more of our preferred shareholders, warrant holders, convertible noteholders, and option holders, could adversely affect the market value of our common shares as well as our ability to complete any future equity financing. As at September 30, 2006, we had outstanding: • 20,000,000 Class A Series 1 Preferred Shares (“Series A Preferred Shares”) and 67,789,300 Class B Series 1 Preferred Shares (“Series B Preferred Shares”) (collectively, our “Preferred Shares”). These Preferred Shares are convertible into common shares at the option of the holders and upon certain triggering events. The conversion ratio is greater than one common share for each Preferred Share and depends on the value of a common share at the time of conversion; • Stock options to acquire 19,108,106 common shares; • Warrants to acquire up to an additional 59,674,886 common shares; • A warrant (granted to the lead investor in our April 2004 financing) to acquire certain additional common shares upon the occurrence of certain events, such number of common shares to be determined in accordance with the formula set forth in this warrant; - 12 - Table of Contents • Warrants in the aggregate amount of $15 million (acquired by Wesley Clover Corporation, a company controlled directly or indirectly by Dr. Matthews, our principal shareholder and the chairman of our board of directors, in September 2006), to acquire common shares, such number of common shares to be determined in accordance with the formula set forth in these warrants. If these warrants are exercised in connection with an initial public offering, the holder will be entitled to receive additional warrants to acquire common shares in accordance with a formula set forth in these warrants; and • $55,000,000 (plus accrued interest) in convertible notes which may be converted into common shares on or after consummation of a qualified initial public offering (as defined in the notes) and upon certain triggering events. The issuance of common shares upon the conversion of our Preferred Shares or the exercise of certain warrants or stock options may occur at a time when the conversion or exercise price is below the market value of our common shares. In addition, the convertible notes may be converted into common shares prior to a qualified initial public offering in certain circumstances at a price which may be below the value of our common shares. Therefore, the conversion or exercise of these securities will likely have a dilutive effect on the value of our common shares. The conversion or exercise of these securities will also result in us having more common shares outstanding, which would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. Furthermore, the convertible notes, the Preferred Shares, warrants and stock options, as well as the terms of these securities could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. For additional information on these conversion and exercise rights, see Item 10.B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation – Share Capital”. We are exposed to risks inherent in our defined benefit pension plan. We currently maintain a defined benefit pension plan, which was closed to new employees in June 2001, for a number of our past and present employees in the United Kingdom. The contributions to fund benefit obligations under this plan are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain assumptions about the long-term operation of the plan, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets and interest rates. If the actual operation of the plan differs from these assumptions, additional contributions by us may be required. As of April 30, 2006, the accumulated benefit obligation of $144.3 million exceeded the fair value of the plan assets of $104.2 million, resulting in a pension liability of $40.1 million. Changes to pension legislation in the United Kingdom may adversely affect our funding requirements. Transfer pricing rules may adversely affect our income tax expenses. We conduct business operations in various jurisdictions and through legal entities in Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Barbados and elsewhere. We and certain of our subsidiaries provide solutions and services to, and may from time to time undertake certain significant transactions with, other subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. The tax laws of many of these jurisdictions, including Canada, have detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s length pricing principles, and contemporaneous documentation must exist to support this pricing. The taxation authorities in - 13 - Table of Contents the jurisdictions where we carry on business, including the Canada Revenue Agency, the United States Internal Revenue Service and HM Revenue & Customs in the United Kingdom, could challenge our arm’s length related party transfer pricing policies. International transfer pricing is an area of taxation that depends heavily on the underlying facts and circumstances and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If any of these taxation authorities are successful in challenging our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected and we could also be subjected to interest and penalty charges. Any increase in our income tax expense and related interest and penalties could have a significant impact on our future earnings and future cash flows. Future changes in financial accounting standards could adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting policies could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. In particular, in December 2004 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a statement requiring companies to record stock option grants as compensation expense in their income statements. This statement is effective beginning with our first quarter of fiscal 2007. Our current methodology for expensing stock options is based on, among other things, the historical volatility of the underlying stock and the expected life of our stock options. The adoption of this accounting standard could negatively impact our profitability and may adversely impact our stock price. Governmental regulation could harm our operating results and future prospects. Governments in a number of jurisdictions in which we conduct business have imposed export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, including some of the technologies used in our solutions. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect our revenues. A number of governments also have laws and regulations that govern technical specifications for the provision of our solutions. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect the sales of, decrease the demand for, and increase the cost of, our solutions. For example, the Federal Communications Commission may issue regulatory pronouncements from time to time that may mandate new standards for our equipment in the United States. These pronouncements could require costly changes to our hardware and software. Additionally, certain government agencies currently require voice-over-Internet-Protocol products to be certified through a lengthy testing process. Other government agencies may adopt similar lengthy certification procedures which could delay the delivery of our products and adversely affect our revenues. - 14 - Table of Contents Our future success depends on our existing key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the services of a number of the members of our senior management and software and engineering staff, as well as the expertise of our directors. Competition for highly skilled directors, management, research and development and other employees is intense in our industry and we may not be able to attract and retain highly qualified directors, management, and research and development personnel in the future. In order to improve productivity, a portion of our compensation to key employees and directors is in the form of stock option grants, and as a consequence, a depression in our share price could make it difficult for us to motivate and retain employees and recruit additional qualified directors and personnel. The recent decision by the Financial Accounting Standards Board regarding the accounting treatment of stock options as compensation expense could lead to a reduction in our use of stock options as an incentive and retention tool. We currently do not maintain corporate life insurance policies on the lives of our directors or any of our key employees. We may make strategic acquisitions in the future. We may not be successful in operating or integrating these acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we will consider acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies complementary to ours. These acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results and the price of our common shares. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • difficulties in integrating new products, software, businesses, operations, and technology infrastructure in an efficient and effective manner; • difficulties in maintaining customer relations; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; • the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business; • the potential adverse effect on our cash position as a result of all or a portion of an acquisition purchase price being paid in cash; • the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our shareholders’ percentage ownership; and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. The costs and risks associated with Sarbanes-Oxley regulatory compliance may have a material adverse effect on us. We will be required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing with our annual report - 15 - Table of Contents for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. As a result, we will be required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and we will incur substantial expenses to test our systems, as well as ongoing compliance costs. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares There are significant restrictions on the resale of our securities and there can be no assurance as to when such restrictions will cease to apply, if ever. There is presently no public market through which our securities may be sold or resold. Our securities are not listed for trading on any stock exchange, and there is no guarantee that any such listing will be completed in the future. None of our securities have been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) or the securities laws of any of the states of the United States and are “restricted securities” as defined under the rules of the Securities Act, which may not be transferred to a U.S. person except pursuant to registration under the Securities Act, or pursuant to an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Canadian provincial securities laws also restrict the transfer of our securities, unless an exemption from the prospectus requirements is available in respect of such transfer, at least until the time we become a reporting issuer in a province of Canada. In addition, our articles currently contain restrictions on the transfer of our common shares. Investors may be unable to liquidate an investment in our securities, whether or not a listing is subsequently affected. An investor should not purchase our securities unless such investor is able to endure a lack of liquidity and/or withstand a total loss of his or her investment. Dr. Matthews is a significant shareholder and he has the potential to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders. Dr. Matthews holds 66% of the voting power of our share capital as of September 30, 2006, as further disclosed in Item 7.A. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders” and Item 7.B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions”. Dr. Matthews is also the chairman of our board of directors. Dr. Matthews, given the extent of his ownership position, has the potential to control matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to our articles of incorporation or by-laws, and significant corporate transactions. Dr. Matthews may have interests that differ from the interests of our other shareholders. - 16 - Table of Contents Dr. Matthews’ ownership of our common shares, as well as provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and Canadian law, may reduce the likelihood of a change of control occurring and, as a consequence, may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your common shares at a control premium. The voting power of Dr. Matthews, under certain circumstances, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium. In addition, provisions of our articles of incorporation and Canadian law may delay or impede a change of control transaction. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed under the Competition Act (Canada). This legislation permits the Commissioner of Competition of Canada to review any acquisition of or control over a significant interest in us and grants the Commissioner jurisdiction to challenge such an acquisition before the Canadian Competition Tribunal on the basis that it would, or would be likely to, result in a substantial prevention or lessening of competition in any market in Canada. In addition, the Investment Canada Act subjects an acquisition of control of a Canadian business (as that term is defined therein) by a non-Canadian to government review if the value of assets acquired as calculated pursuant to the legislation exceeds a threshold amount. A reviewable acquisition may not proceed unless the relevant minister is satisfied that the investment is likely to be a net benefit to Canada (see Item 10.B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation”). Any of the foregoing could prevent or delay a change of control and may deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their common shares at a control premium. You may be unable to bring actions or enforce judgments against us, certain of our directors and officers, certain of the selling shareholders or our independent public accounting firm under U.S. federal securities laws. We are incorporated under the laws of Canada, and our principal executive offices are located in Canada. A majority of our directors and officers, certain of our significant shareholders and our independent public accounting firm reside principally in Canada and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Consequently, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons. Furthermore, it may not be possible for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States against us or those persons. There is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Canadian courts of liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws, and as to the enforceability in Canadian courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. U.S. investors will suffer adverse United States federal income tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, as defined under Section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, then U.S. Holders (see Item 10.E. “Additional Information – Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) would be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Rather than being subject to these adverse tax consequences, U.S. Holders may be able to make a mark-to-market election, which could require the inclusion of amounts in income of a U.S. Holder annually, even in the absence of distributions with respect to, or the disposition of, our common shares. We do not believe that we are a PFIC, nor do we anticipate that we will become a PFIC in the foreseeable - 17 - Table of Contents future. However, we cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service will not successfully challenge our position or that we will not become a PFIC in a future taxable year, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on our assets and income in such year. For a more detailed discussion of the PFIC rules, see Item 10.E. “Additional Information –Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations”. 