Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair the business and our operations. Economic Conditions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to changes in general or regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. Any significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase costs resulting in lower profitability for the company. Competition. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competition includes publicly and privately owned franchised new car dealers and independent dealers, as well as millions of private individuals. Our competitors may sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices. Further, new entrants to the market could result in increased acquisition costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and margins. CAF is subject to competition from various financial institutions. Additionally, competition on vehicle sales and related financing is increasing, as these products are now being marketed and sold over the Internet. Customers are increasingly using the Internet to compare pricing for cars and related financing, which may further reduce our profitability. Retail Prices. Any significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles could reduce our sales and margins. If any of our competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices for used or new vehicles, we would likely reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which could result in a decrease in our sales and profitability and require a change in our operating strategies. Inventory. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory would adversely affect our business. A failure to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with the broader market trade-in offer trends, or a failure to recognize those trends, could negatively impact our ability to acquire inventory. Should we develop excess inventory, the inability to liquidate the excess inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs would adversely affect our profitability. Real Estate. The inability to acquire suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit the expansion of our store base and could have a material adverse affect on our future operating results. Management and Workforce. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our store, region, and corporate management teams. Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel as we open new stores. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate is highly competitive and may result in increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. Information Systems. Our business is dependent upon the efficient operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage sales, inventory, consumer financing, and customer information. The failure of these systems to perform as designed or the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of these systems could disrupt our business, impact sales and profitability, or expose us to customer or third-party claims. Capital. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the availability of long-term financing to support our geographic expansion and the availability of securitization financing, could adversely affect growth and operating strategies. Further, our current credit facility and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and/or performance triggers. Any failure to comply with these covenants and/or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Weather. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, adversely affecting consumer traffic at our superstores could negatively impact our operating results. Table of Contents 11 Seasonal Fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We generally realize a higher proportion of revenue and operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal quarters, the adverse effect on our revenues and operating profit for the year could be disproportionately large. Geographic Concentration. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive, and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate. Since a large number of our superstores are located in the Southeastern U.S. and in the Chicago, Los Angeles, Houston, Dallas, and Washington, D.C./Baltimore markets, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets. In the event that any of these geographic areas experience a downturn in economic conditions, it could adversely affect our business. Regulatory Environment. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements and laws regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing, and employment practices. Our facilities and operations are also subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. The violation of these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, or in a cease and desist order against operations. As a result, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state, and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. If, as a result, other automotive retailers adopt more transparent, consumer-oriented business practices, our differentiation versus those retailers could be reduced. Litigation. We are subject to various litigation matters, which, if the outcomes in any significant matters are adverse, could negatively affect our business. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief, and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct operations. Accounting Matters. The implementation of new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported financial position or results of operations. Potential changes currently under consideration by the Financial Accounting Standards Board include, but are not limited to, proposed rule changes relating to the accounting for securitization transactions and potential changes in accounting for leases and pension expense. Other Material Events. The occurrence of certain material events including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or other significant national or international events could adversely affect our results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Table of Contents 12 Item 