Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and Operations We are experiencing unusual conditions in the global credit markets which create a greater level of risk to our business. Currently, we are experiencing very unusual conditions in the global credit markets. These conditions are characterized by greater volatility, less liquidity, wider credit spreads, a lack of price transparency and a flight to quality among others. Initially, these conditions were triggered by deteriorating conditions in the subprime mortgage market including higher than expected delinquencies. This has now spread beyond the subprime mortgage market to a broader market contagion impacting a number of financial markets, global financial institutions and certain rating dependent investment vehicles. The deteriorating market environment has resulted in significant reductions in the market values of several asset classes and changes in the criteria applied by the rating agencies in determining expected losses for certain asset classes, particularly asset-backed securities referencing subprime mortgages. A number of financial institutions have been forced to raise lar ge amounts of new capital at very expensive levels. Additionally, a number of financial institutions and financial guaranty companies have experienced rating downgrades with a negative outlook. The market illiquidity and unwillingness of investors to make investments in certain short-term debt instruments has resulted in the liquidation of certain ratings dependent market value investment companies, particularly structured investment vehicles. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions may continue. If these conditions persist or worsen during the remainder of 2008, the company may face a very challenging business environment in terms of the potential for higher risk of default by reference entities, our ability to grow our business, raise capital or access counterparty capacity. General economic and market factors may materially adversely affect our loss experience, the demand for our services and our financial results. In addition to the risks presented by the current conditions in the global credit markets, we could incur losses due to adverse changes in overall economic and market conditions. Changes in these conditions may include extended economic downturns, business failures, interest rate changes or volatility, credit spread volatility, capital markets volatility or changes in investor or counterparty perception about the value of credit derivatives or the credit markets in general, or a combination of any of such factors. Further, the market for the sale of credit protection using credit default swaps 21 Table of Contents and, consequently, related premiums are affected by a number of economic and market factors not within our control. The occurrence of credit events with respect to Reference Entities, such as bankruptcy or the failure to pay indebtedness, for instance, may be caused by cyclicality of the economy, in general, or cyclicality within the industry or geographic location of the Reference Entity. The failure to manage effectively the risk of credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and credit ratings. We cannot assure you that any of the loss mitigation methods we use in managing our credit swap portfolio will be effective. If, for example, multiple credit defaults or other defined credit events that exceed our expectations occur within a short time period, the payments we would be required to make under the related credit swaps could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and credit ratings. Moreover, even though we may identify a heightened risk of default with respect to a particular Reference Entity, our ability to limit our losses, through hedging or terminating the credit swap, before a default or other defined credit event actually occurs could be limited by conditions of inadequate liquidity in the credit swap market or conditions which render terminations or hedging economically impractical. As we assume other types of exposure, such as credit swaps referencing obligations of Reference Entities that are below i nvestment grade and credit swaps on ABS, we may not have access to the same or similar loss limitation methods. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage higher risks of credit losses effectively or that any of our loss mitigation methods will be effective in any of these new areas. On January 30, 2008, Primus Financial experienced a defined credit event for credit swaps sold on ABS, due to a downgrade to CCC (S&P) or below of the underlying ABS securities. See Subsequent Event—2008 caption in the ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’’ section for further discussion. Primus Financial’s operating guidelines and S&P’s and Moody’s capital requirements are subject to change and may limit our growth. Additionally, a decline in our current counterparty credit ratings from S&P and Moody’s would likely have a material adverse impact on our credit swap business and cause our revenues and earnings to decrease. Primus Financial has ‘‘AAA’’ and ‘‘Aaa’’ counterparty ratings from S&P and Moody’s respectively. These ratings are crucial in supporting the growth of Primus Financial’s business. In order to obtain and maintain its counterparty credit ratings, Primus Financial has adopted operating guidelines, the terms of which have been agreed upon with S&P and Moody’s. We cannot assure you that S&P and Moody’s will not require changes to Primus Financial’s operating guidelines or that, if such changes are made, Primus Financial will be able to comply with them. For example, if S&P or Moody’s were to require Primus Financial to maintain additional capital to retain its AAA/Aaa ratings, we cannot be certain that we could raise additional capital when needed. Moreover, if Primus Financial suffers losses to such an extent that it is not in compliance with the capital criteria of i ts operating guidelines and it is not able to cure the capital deficiency in a timely manner, its operating guidelines require it to cease entering into new credit swaps (except for limited hedging transactions, as described in the operating guidelines). If the foregoing occurs, S&P or Moody’s could reduce or withdraw their ‘‘AAA/Aaa’’ credit ratings of Primus Financial which, in turn, would likely have a material adverse effect on our credit swap business and our financial performance. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we require additional capital, we may need to raise funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Further, rating agencies could change their criteria relating to the ratings of debt instruments making it extremely difficult for us to raise capital at an economically feasible cost. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to raise capital is highly dependent upon the conditions of the capital markets among other things. The current credit market contagion has adversely impacted the capital markets, there is no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital in the immediate future. 22 Table of Contents We are dependent upon counterparties’ perception of our creditworthiness and their willingness to transact with us. In establishing relationships, Primus Financial’s counterparties generally analyze our financial condition prior to entering into a credit swap, establish credit limits, and monitor the appropriateness of these limits on an ongoing basis in order to limit their risk that Primus Financial will not be able to meet its obligations. Once a counterparty reaches its credit exposure limit to Primus Financial, the counterparty will likely not enter into any additional transactions with Primus Financial until the counterparty’s credit limit is increased. In the event these counterparty credit limits are not increased or decrease as credit swaps between Primus Financial and the counterparty runoff and are not replaced, our financial performance could suffer. The growth of our credit protection business will be materially impacted if we cannot maintain and increase the lines of credit with our existing counterparties or increase the number of counterparties wil ling to contract with us, or a combination of both. In the future, additional counterparties may require collateral to be posted, which may restrict the number of counterparties available to Primus Financial. In addition, while there are buyers of credit swaps, such as our existing counterparties, that do not require us to post collateral, there are some buyers, including a small number of the leading participants in the credit swap market, that require even the highest rated counterparties from which they purchase credit swaps to post collateral. Under its operating guidelines, Primus Financial cannot enter into credit swaps with any counterparty that would require it to post collateral nor can it provide any ratings triggers, which upon a downgrade would provide for collateral. There is no assurance that, in the future, counterparties will require collateral, thereby limiting, the counterparties available to us. We face risks in our credit protection business from our credit swaps sold on financial intermediaries, brokers/dealers/investment houses and insurance companies. At December 31, 2007, 13.3% of our single name credit swap portfolio in notional amounts references financial intermediaries; 2.6% references brokers/dealers/investment houses and 9.6% references insurance companies. In aggregate, these reference entities represented 25.5% in notional amounts of our total single name credit swap portfolio. As part of our portfolio of credit swaps referencing insurance companies we have sold protection on five financial guaranty companies in a total aggregate notional amount of approximately $501 million. In the current market contagion a number of the reference entities are under ratings pressure and have had to raise significant amounts of new capital. We also have exposure to a number of financial intermediaries and banks as counterparties to our credit swap agreements. If these sectors continue to suffer in the midst of the global credit crisis, we may sustain losses if credit events occur. We depend on a limited number of key executives. The loss of any of our key personnel, including Thomas Jasper, our chief executive officer, other directors, executive officers, or other key employees, many of whom have long-standing relationships with our counterparties, could have a material adverse effect on us. As our business develops and expands, we believe that our success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to employ key personnel or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. We do not have ‘‘key person’’ life insurance to cover our executive officers. We do not have employment contracts with all of our executive officers and key employees. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our financial results depend on certain market conditions and growth in the credit swap market, which are not within our control. Our financial results depend to a significant degree upon the premiums that we receive on credit swaps in our portfolio. Historically, these premiums are agreed upon at origination of the swap and generally reflect the market credit swap premium levels prevalent at the time the swap is written. Market premium levels are a function of a variety of factors that we do not control, including changes in the overall economy, supply and demand conditions in the credit swap market and other factors 23 Table of Contents affecting the corporate credit markets in general. In addition, there can be no assurance that the credit swap market will continue to grow as it has historically, or at all, or that it will not decline. Any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Variations in market credit swap premium levels could cause our U.S. GAAP earnings to be volatile. Any event causing market credit swap premium levels to widen or tighten significantly on underlying Reference Entities in our portfolio will affect the fair value of related credit swaps and may increase the volatility of our financial results reported under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to report credit swaps at their fair value, with changes in fair value during periods recorded as unrealized gains or losses in our consolidated statements of operations. The principal determinant of the fair value of a credit swap is the prevailing market premium associated with the underlying Reference Entity at the time the valuation is derived. Generally, valuations for our credit swaps in our portfolio rely upon market pricing quotations from dealers and third party pricing providers. We cannot assure there will be a broadly based and liquid market to provide reliable market quotations in the futur e, particularly in circumstances where there is abnormal volatility or lack of liquidity in the market. Common events that may cause our credit swap premiums to fluctuate include changes in national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, credit events within an industry, changes in a Reference Entity’s operating results, credit rating, cost of funds, management or any other factors leading investors to revise expectations about a Reference Entity’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations when due. Volatility in our reported U.S. GAAP earnings may cause our share price to fluctuate significantly. Certain of our principal shareholders have the ability to exercise significant influence on our business. At December 31, 2007, our principal shareholders (by which we mean those institutions that owned shares prior to our initial public offering in October 2004), directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them own approximately 49% of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders, collectively, are able to significantly influence the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate action submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers, amalgamations or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. We cannot assure you that the interests of our principal shareholders will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common shares. This concentration of o wnership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our share price. The commercial and investment activities of some of our principal shareholders may compete with our business. Certain of our principal shareholders or their affiliates engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in direct or indirect competition with us. Some of our principal shareholders or their affiliates may in the future sponsor other entities engaged in the credit swap business or asset management business, some of which may compete with us. Certain of our shareholders and their affiliates have also entered into agreements with and made investments in numerous companies that may compete with us. Our shareholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our principal shareholders continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding common shares, they will continue to be able to influence strongly or effectively control our business decisions. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. Currently we retain all available funds for use in the operation and expansion of our business. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, we are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than our ownership of all of our subsidiaries. There are certain restrictions on Primus Financial contained in its operating guidelines, which may affect its ability to pay dividends in future years. Further, the payment of dividends and making of distributions by each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re is limited under Bermuda law and regulations. Any determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We may not be able to continue to compete in the credit swap market. The credit swap market is highly competitive. We face competition from providers of similar products, including credit swap dealers of commercial and investment banks. Many of these competitors are more established, have substantially greater resources than we do and have established ongoing relationships with market participants giving them ready and better access to the credit swap marketplace. In addition, while there are significant business obstacles to overcome in establishing a similar enterprise to ours, there are currently no regulatory impediments for any new entrants to the credit swap market. As new participants enter the credit swap market, competition may intensify. While we believe we have a number of competitive advantages over new entrants, there can be no assurance that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may fail to execute our strategy in our newer lines of business, which could impair our future financial results. Since our initial public offering, we have added a number of new lines of business, including writing credit swaps with respect to ABS, participating in warehouse loan financing arrangements with respect to CLO transactions under our management and managing portfolios of various debt obligations including, among others, leveraged loans and high yield debt securities. We, through Primus Financial sell credit swaps referencing ABS. ABS is a relatively new asset class for us and our experience with issuing credit default swaps against this type of fixed income security is therefore limited. Although we intend to issue credit swaps against investment grade ABS, an investment grade rating of an ABS does not guarantee that defaults and other credit events will not occur. Some of the loans collateralizing the ABS may be sub-prime mortgages, second lien mortgages or other loans that do not conform to the standards of the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, the primary purchaser of residential mortgage obligations. If defaults or downgrades, were to occur with respect to the underlying reference bonds, such bonds may not be readily marketable. Moreover, credit swaps on ABS, unlike our credit swaps on corporate reference entities, include a credit event trigger based on a ratings downgrade on the underlying reference bond to CCC or below. Accordingly, in our ABS portfolios, there is an additional risk of a credit event to us, as a result of a credit rating downgrade. In recent months there have been reports of significant increases in the default level of sub-prime and second lien mortgage loans. ABS require a different type of credit analysis, and present different types of credit risk than do the corporate debt obligations. If we fail to evaluate properly the risks posed by ABS on which we issue credit default swaps, we may incur losses which, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. See Subsequent Event-2008 caption in the section ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations’’ for further discussion. There can be no assurance that our diversification strategy will be effective or profitable. We plan to further diversify through the development and marketing of ancillary businesses, such as asset management and, in select instances, potentially by acquisition. Each new business line may require the investment of additional capital and the significant involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop a new line of business and integrate it with our operations which would potentially place a strain on our management, other personnel, resources and systems. As a result, our 25 Table of Contents business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may experience delays, regulatory impediments and other complications in implementing our diversification strategy that could reduce our profitability and ultimately cause the strategy to fail. Some of these complications may include obtaining rating agency approvals and required licenses and registrations, adapting our technology platform, hiring personnel and raising capital. There is no assurance that we will accurately anticipate resource requirements. The expansion of our asset management business may require working capital as we build teams of portfolio managers, and supporting resources, prior to receipt of asset management fees. Also, we may be expected to co-invest in vehicles we manage, possibly in a junior or first loss position, and the capital so invested may be exposed to the risk of significant losses if the vehicles perform poorly. The growth of our asset management business is highly dependent on investor dema nd, marketing considerations and pricing considerations, which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we can give no assurances regarding the levels of anticipated transactions. In addition if we produce poor performance on our asset management business, our management agreements could be terminated. Our operations may become subject to increased regulation under federal and state law or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences for us. There can be no assurance that new legal or administrative interpretations or regulations under the United States commodities and securities laws, or other applicable legislation on the federal or state levels, or in Bermuda, or in the United Kingdom, or other applicable jurisdictions, will not result in administrative burdens, increased costs, or other adverse consequences for us. Periodically, proposals have been made in Congress to enact legislation that would increase regulation of the credit swap market. We cannot predict what restrictions any such legislation, if adopted, would impose and the effect those restrictions would have on our business. In addition, federal statutes allocate responsibility for insurance regulation to the states and state insurance regulators may seek to assert jurisdiction over our credit swaps. Again, we cannot predict what effect any such regulation would have on our business. Credit swap buyers typically use credit swaps to manage risk and regulatory capital requirements that limit their credit exposure to a Reference Entity. Regulatory changes that modify the permissible limits of credit risk exposure, or affect the use of credit swaps to reduce risk, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that we are not required to be registered as an ‘‘investment company’’ under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are required to so register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure, restrictions on our investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance requirements that could limit our growth and increase our costs. There is no assurance that we could function effectively if we are required to register as an investment company. Our share price may fall below the minimum share price requirements of the NYSE Our common shares have been trading between $7.06 and $3.64 per share since the beginning of 2008. For as long as our share price remains below $5.00 per share, our common shares will not be marginable, which may reduce the liquidity of our common shares. Many institutional investors will not invest in companies whose common shares trade at less than $5.00 per share, meaning that there may be less demand for our shares as long as the trading price of our common shares remains below $5.00. This could result in further decreases in our share price. In addition, if our share price falls below the required $1.00 minimum share price requirement for stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, or we fail to satisfy any other listing requirements, our common shares could be delisted from the NYSE. 26 Table of Contents We are exposed to significant credit market risk related to changes in foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We transact credit swaps denominated in both U.S. dollars and euros. Approximately 33% of our total credit swap portfolio of $23 billion (in notional amount) at December 31, 2007, was denominated in euros. The notional principal of the credit swap is denominated in euros and the premiums are payable in euros, therefore our credit exposure is affected by changes in the foreign exchange rate between euros and U.S. dollars. We translate euros into U.S. dollars at the current market foreign exchange rates for the purpose of recognizing credit swap premium income and the computation of fair values in our consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the exchange between euros and U.S. dollars may have an adverse affect on the fair value of credit swaps and our premium income in our consolidated statements of operations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. We do not hedge against foreign exchange rate risk. We are highly dependent on information systems and third party service providers. Our businesses are highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our business activities and our ongoing credit analysis and risk management assessments. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Risks Related to Taxation Our status as a PFIC may result in significant additional tax costs for shareholders who are United States taxpayers. Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda are likely to be and remain passive foreign investment companies, or PFICs, for United States federal income tax purposes. There are potentially adverse United States federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC for a shareholder who is a United States taxpayer. These consequences include the following: (1) if a shareholder makes a ‘‘qualified electing fund,’’ or QEF, election with respect to Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting an allocable share of the income of Primus Guaranty or Primus Bermuda, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder, (2) if a shareholder makes a mark-to-market election with respect to Primus Guaranty, the shareholder will have to include annually in his or her taxable income an amount reflecting any year-end increases in the price of our com mon shares, regardless of whether dividends are paid by Primus Guaranty to the shareholder (moreover, it is unclear how such an election would affect the shareholder with respect to Primus Bermuda), and (3) if a shareholder does not make a QEF election or a mark-to-market election, he or she may incur significant additional United States federal income taxes with respect to dividends on, or gain from, the sale or other disposition of, our common shares, or with respect to dividends from Primus Bermuda to us, or with respect to our gain on any sale or other disposition of Primus Bermuda shares. If we are found to be engaged in a United States business, we may be liable for significant United States taxes. We believe that Primus Guaranty and Primus Bermuda, both directly and through Primus Guaranty’s ownership interest in PRS Trading Strategies (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Guaranty), Primus Guaranty’s ownership interest in Harrier (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Guaranty), Primus Bermuda’s indirect ownership interest in Primus Financial (which, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is treated as a partnership interest), and Primus Bermuda’s ownership interest in PGUK (which for U.S. federal income tax purposes is treated as a disregarded entity, or branch, of Primus Bermuda), will operate their businesses in a manner that should not result in their being treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Consequently, we do not expect to pay U .S. corporate income or branch profits tax on Primus Financial’s, PRS Trading Strategies’, Harrier’s or PGUK’s income. 27 Table of Contents However, because the determination of whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business in the United States is fact-based and there are no definitive standards for making such a determination, there can be no assurance that the IRS, will not contend successfully that Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies, Harrier or PGUK are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. The maximum combined rate of U.S. corporate federal, state and local income tax that could apply to Primus Financial, Primus Bermuda, Primus Guaranty, PRS Trading Strategies, Harrier or PGUK, were they found to be engaged in a United States business in New York City and subject to income tax, is currently approximately 46%. This combined income tax rate does not include U.S. branch profits tax that would be imposed on Primus Bermuda, were Primus Financial or PGUK, found to be engaged in a U.S. business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Bermuda, or that would be imposed on Primus Guaranty were PRS Trading Strategies or Harrier found to be engaged in a U.S. business and deemed to be making distributions to Primus Guaranty. The branch profits tax, were it to apply, would apply at the rate of 30% on amounts deemed distributed. Primus Guaranty and certain of its subsidiaries are currently undergoing federal tax audits, but no audit has yet been completed. If the IRS successfully challenges the treatment Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier have adopted for its credit swap transactions, the timing and character of taxable income recognized by Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier could be adversely affected. Consistent with its treatment of the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial, and bought and sold by PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier, as the sale (or purchase, in the case of PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier) of options for United States federal income tax purposes, we have determined that in general Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier will recognize income or loss as a protection seller or buyer only upon occurrence of a credit event under or termination of the credit swaps. There is no definitive authority in support of the treatment by Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier of its credit swaps as options for United States federal income tax purposes, and we do not intend to seek a ruling from the IRS on this point. In addition, the IRS has been studying the treatment of derivative transactions generally, including credit swaps, and has issued a notice requesting submissions from taxpayers regarding the manner in which they co nduct their credit swap activities and indicating that the United States Department of the Treasury and the IRS are contemplating issuing specific guidance in this area. No assurance can be given as to whether or when such guidance may be issued, whether it would be applied retroactively or whether it will be adverse to Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier. Certain proposals under discussion could be inconsistent with the tax treatment adopted by Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier. If the IRS were to assert successfully that the credit swaps sold by Primus Financial, and bought and sold by PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier, should be treated differently or these proposals were adopted, (1) the timing of the income recognized by Primus Financial, PRS Trading Strategies and Harrier could be accelerated, (2) the character of this income could be altered and (3) Primus Bermuda and Primus Guaranty, as non-United States persons, could be subject to United States income tax, or withholding tax at the rate of 30%. In addition, were these changes in character to apply and were Primus Bermuda (through its investment in Primus Financial) and Primus Guaranty (through its investment in PRS Trading Strategies or Harrier) found to be engaged in a United States trade or business, Primus Bermuda’s and Primus Guaranty’s recognition of taxable income would be accelerated. Risks Related to our Status as a Bermuda Company It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Because Primus Guaranty is organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against Primus Guaranty based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against Primus Guaranty or its directors or officers based on the civil 28 Table of Contents liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States, or would hear actions against Primus Guaranty or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of United States courts and some remedies available under the laws of United States jurisdictions, including some remedies available under United States federal securities laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where Primus Guaranty has assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers in the first instance for violation of United States federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on Primus Guaranty or its directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. United States persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than United States persons who are shareholders of a United States corporation. The Companies Act 1981, as amended, of Bermuda, or the Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, United States persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would United States persons who own common shares of a United States corporation. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda and Primus Re, an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then, subject to certain limitations, the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Primus Guaranty, Primus Bermuda, Primus Re or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operatio ns, including imposition of tax liability. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Union considerations. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, has published reports and launches a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated June 26, 2000, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices by the end of 2005 and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no 29 Table of Contents substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 