Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or additional risks not presently known or that we currently deem immaterial. Economic Conditions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to changes in general or regional U.S. economic conditions, including, but not limited to, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, interest rates, gasoline prices, inflation, personal discretionary spending levels, unemployment levels and consumer sentiment about the economy in general. Any significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer demand and/or increase costs. Capital. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the long-term financing to support our geographic expansion and financing of auto loan receivables, could adversely affect growth and operating strategies. Further, our current credit facility and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and/or performance triggers. Any failure to comply with these covenants and/or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We use and have historically relied upon a securitization program to fund substantially all of the auto loan receivables originated by CAF. Initially, we sell these receivables into our warehouse facility. We periodically refinance the receivables through term securitizations. Changes in the condition of the asset-backed securitization market have led, and could in the future lead, us to incur higher costs to access funds in this market or we could be required to seek alternative means to finance our loan originations. In the event that this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some period of time. The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF’s loan originations could have a material adverse impact on our business, sales and results of operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility. If our ability to secure funds from the facility were significantly impaired, our access to working capital would be impacted, our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels could be affected and these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Third-Party Financing Providers. CarMax provides financing to qualified customers through CAF and a number of third-party financing providers. In the event that one or more of these third-party providers could no longer, or choose not to, provide financing to our customers, could only provide financing to a reduced segment of our customers or could no longer provide financing at competitive rates of interest, it could have a material impact on our business, sales and results of operations. Additionally, if we were unable to replace current third-party financing providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material impact on our business, sales and results of operations. Competition. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive business. Our competition includes publicly and privately owned new and used car dealers, as well as millions of private individuals. Competitors sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices. Further, new entrants to the market could result in increased acquisition costs for used vehicles and lower-than-expected vehicle sales and margins. Competition could be affected by the increasing use of the Internet to market and potentially sell used vehicles and obtain vehicle financing. The increasing use of the Internet in the automotive retailing business could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, CAF is subject to competition from various financial institutions. Retail Prices. Any significant changes in retail prices for used and new vehicles could reduce sales and profits. If any of our competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices for used or new vehicles, we would likely reduce our prices in order to remain competitive, which could result in a decrease in our sales revenue and results of operations and require a change in our operating strategies. 11 Inventory. A reduction in the availability or access to sources of inventory could adversely affect our business. A failure to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or a failure to recognize those trends, could negatively impact the ability to acquire inventory. Should we develop excess inventory, the inability to liquidate the excess inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs would adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory and Legislative Environment. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as licensing requirements and laws regarding advertising, vehicle sales, financing and employment practices. Our facilities and business operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety. The violation of these laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease-and-desist order against business operations. As a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenses and other costs to comply with these laws and regulations. Further, over the past several years, private plaintiffs and federal, state and local regulatory and law enforcement authorities have increased their scrutiny of advertising, sales, financing and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. If, as a result, other automotive retailers adopt more transparent, consumer-oriented business practices, our differentiation versus those retailers could be reduced. During the past year, there were several proposed, comprehensive federal legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms, and depending upon the scope of the final legislation, if any, we may experience an increase in expenses or a decrease in revenues. Certain new laws, including legislation regarding health care, employee relations, and finance and tax reform, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Management and Workforce. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our store, region and corporate management teams. Consequently, the loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel as we open new stores. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate is highly competitive and could result in increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. Information Systems. Our business is dependent upon the efficient operation of our information systems. In particular, we rely on our information systems to effectively manage sales, inventory, consumer financing and customer information. The failure of these systems to perform as designed or the failure to maintain and continually enhance or protect the integrity of these systems could disrupt our business operations, impact sales and results of operations, expose us to customer or third-party claims or result in adverse publicity. Accounting Policies and Matters. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. Materially different amounts could be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board is currently considering various proposed rule changes including, but not limited to, potential changes in accounting for leases. The SEC is currently considering adopting rules that would require U.S. issuers to prepare their financial statements contained in SEC filings in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. The implementation of these or other new accounting requirements or changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles could adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition. Confidential Customer Information. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise affect our results of operations. 12 Growth. Our inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit our expansion and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The expansion of our store base places significant demands on our management team, our associates and our systems. If we fail to effectively or efficiently manage our growth, it could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations. Litigation. We are subject to various litigation matters, which could adversely affect our business. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business. Automotive Manufacturers. Adverse conditions affecting one or more automotive manufacturers could impact our results of operations. Manufacturer recalls could also have an adverse effect on used vehicle sales or valuations. Weather. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes or other natural disasters, could cause store closures, adversely affecting consumer traffic, and could adversely affect our results of operations. Seasonal Fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We generally realize a higher proportion of revenue and operating profit during the first and second fiscal quarters. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the first or second fiscal quarters, these conditions could have a disproportionately large adverse effect on our annual results of operations. Geographic Concentration. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate. Since a large number of our superstores are located in the Southeastern U.S. and in the Chicago, Los Angeles and Washington, D.C./Baltimore markets, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets. In the event that any of these geographic areas experienced a downturn in economic conditions, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Other Material Events. The occurrence of certain material events including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or other significant national or international events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 