Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations. Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may delay or prevent completion of our merger with Thilmany. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of all governmental consents, orders and approvals, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period, and any extension of the waiting period, under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. No assurance can be given that the required consents, orders and approvals will be obtained or that the required conditions to closing will be satisfied, and, if all required consents, orders and approvals are obtained and the conditions are satisfied, no assurance can be given as to the terms, conditions and timing of the approvals or that they will satisfy the terms of the merger agreement. Additionally, completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of any statute, rule, regulation, executive order, decree, ruling or injunction or other order of a court or governmental or regulatory agency that would restrain or prohibit consummation of the merger. We are subject to recent claims related to the Merger from 6 Table of Contents plaintiffs seeking to enjoin the Merger and other forms of relief. Completion of the merger is also conditioned upon approval of the transaction by the stockholders of the Company. Failure to complete the merger could adversely impact the market price of our common stock as well as our business and operating results. If the merger is not completed for any reason, the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the merger will be completed and the related benefits that will be realized. We may also be subject to additional risks if the merger is not completed, including: • depending on the reasons for termination of the merger agreement, the requirement that we pay Thilmany a termination fee of $5.0 million; • substantial costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting, filing and printing fees, that must be paid regardless of whether the merger is completed; and • potential disruption of our business and the distraction of our workforce and management team. Our substantial indebtedness may impair our operations and depress our financial results. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our total debt was $111.0 million as of December 31, 2005, including approximately $104.0 million outstanding under our senior credit facility which contains certain restrictive and maintenance covenants. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant consequences for our stockholders. For example, it could • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and amortization payments on our indebtedness, reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • require us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a possible disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Covenants in our senior credit facility could adversely affect our business by limiting our operating and strategic flexibility. Our senior credit facility contains covenants which require maintenance of specified levels of consolidated net worth as well as financial ratios relating to leverage and fixed charge coverage. Our senior credit facility also contains restrictive covenants that limit our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur more debt or guarantee indebtedness; • create liens; • make acquisitions or investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; 7 Table of Contents • merge, consolidate or sell assets; and • pay dividends. If we were unable to comply with the covenants under the senior credit facility, we would need to renegotiate the terms of the senior credit facility. Renegotiation would likely entail the payment of significant fees to the lenders under the senior credit facility. If we were unable to renegotiate satisfactorily the terms of the senior credit facility, the lenders could require we find replacement financing. Any alternative financing could have interest rates and other terms that are less attractive than those under the senior credit facility. We may encounter difficulties arising from integrating acquisitions, restructuring operations or closing or disposing of facilities. We have completed acquisitions, closed facilities, sold assets and otherwise restructured operations in an effort to improve cost competitiveness and profitability. Some of these activities are ongoing, and there is no guarantee that any such activities will not divert the attention of management or disrupt our operations. We have made three acquisitions since 2002 and may actively seek new acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial return criteria. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to locate or acquire suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms or, because of limitations imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness, that we will be able to finance future acquisitions. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disruption of our existing business, dissipation of our limited management resources, and impairment of relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management. While we believe that our acquisitions will improve the Company’s competitiveness and profitability, no assurance can be given that acquisitions will be successful. Intense competition in our markets may harm our financial performance and growth prospects. As discussed in “Business — Competition”, we operate in markets that are highly competitive and face substantial competition in each of our product lines from numerous competitors of various sizes. If we are not as cost efficient as our competitors, or if our competitors are otherwise able to offer lower prices, we may lose customers or be forced to reduce prices, which could negatively impact our financial results. Our financial performance may be harmed by raw material cost increases. As discussed in “Business — Raw Materials”, our business requires various raw materials which are purchased from various third party suppliers. These materials include paper, aluminum foil, inks, adhesives, coatings, films, waxes and packaging supplies. The costs of these materials are subject to substantial market fluctuations that are beyond our control. Although we generally seek to offset the impact of rising raw material costs through selling price increases, future market conditions and/or the terms of our contracts with customers may prevent us from passing raw material cost increases to our customers in a timely manner. In addition, we may not be able achieve manufacturing productivity gains or other cost reductions to offset the impact of rising raw material cost increases. As a result, higher raw material costs could result in reduced profitability. Inability to attract and retain key officers and management personnel could harm our performance and prospects. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior officers and on our ability to attract and retain other qualified management personnel. The loss of the services of our executive officers, or any lack of success in recruiting and retaining qualified management, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized labor force. As discussed in “Business — Employees”, as of December 31, 2005, approximately 27% of our workforce was employed pursuant to collective bargaining agreements at three facilities which expire at various times in 2007 through 2009. Although there have been no interruptions of our operations due to labor disputes since our inception, future strikes, work stoppages or other labor disputes, in connection with labor contract negotiations or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and impair our financial results. We are subject to potential liability under environmental laws. As discussed in “Business — Environmental Matters and Government Regulation”, our manufacturing operations are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the environment and the discharge of materials into air, land and water, as well as the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, changes in environmental laws and/or the discovery of new information could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A significant write down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and net worth. At December 31, 2005, we had recorded $81.3 million of goodwill and $19.7 million of other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions. As discussed in “Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7, we evaluate our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever indicators of impairment exist. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decrease in reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or other intangible assets which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and net worth. Packaging Investors, L.P. owns a significant interest in us and will significantly influence the election of directors and the outcome of stockholder votes, and its interests may conflict with your interests. Packaging Investors, L.P., which beneficially owns approximately 37% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock as of the date hereof, can significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder action, including election of directors and approval of change-in-control transactions. Packaging Investors is also party to a stockholders agreement pursuant to which it is permitted to designate a member of our board of directors and has effective veto power over specified significant corporate actions. This stockholder may act in a manner that does not coincide with the interests of other stockholders. You can read more about the stockholders agreement in “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions — Stockholders Agreement.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 