ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties relating to our business. You should carefully consider the following information about risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to our Business and Industry Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph, to the effect that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed on terms that are acceptable, if at all. The addition of this going concern statement from our independent registered public accounting firm may discourage some investors from purchasing our stock or providing alternative capital financing. The failure to satisfy our capital requirements will adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless we raise additional funds, either through the sale of equity securities or one or more collaborative arrangements, we will not have sufficient funds to continue operations. Even if we take these actions, they may be insufficient, particularly if our costs are higher than projected or unforeseen expenses arise. We are a development stage company with limited operating history and our future profitability is uncertain and we anticipate future losses and negative cash flow, which may limit or delay our ability to become profitable. We are attempting to obtain the necessary working capital for operations, but there can be no assurance we will obtain such financing. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to generate revenue, and there is no assurance that we will produce any material revenues for ourselves or our stockholders, or that we will operate on a profitable basis. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated total deficit during development stage of $43.5 million. 16 Table of Contents We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and no significant revenues to date. To date, we have had only a few revenue-generating services and development contracts. We expect to expend significant resources on consultants, intellectual property protection, research and development, advertising, hiring of personnel and startup costs. As a result, we have incurred losses since our inception and expect to experience operating losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. We anticipate our losses will continue to increase from current levels because we expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to prototype development, consulting costs, laboratory development costs, marketing and other promotional activities, the addition of engineering and manufacturing personnel, and the continued development of relationships with strategic business partners. Since inception, we have generated limited revenues while incurring significant losses. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and until such time, if ever, as we are able to achieve sufficient levels of revenue from the commercial exploitation of our TMOS technology and materials to support our operations. However, planned products based upon our TMOS technology may never become commercially viable. Markets for flat panel displays utilizing our proprietary TMOS technology may be limited. We may never generate sufficient revenues from the commercial exploitation of our TMOS technology and materials to become profitable. Even if we find commercially viable applications for our TMOS technology and materials, we may never recover our research and development expenses. If we do not receive additional financing when and as needed in the future, we may not be able to continue the research, development and commercialization of our TMOS technology and materials. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We will likely require substantial additional funds in excess of our current financial resources in the future for research, development and commercialization of our TMOS technology and materials, to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights in these technologies and materials, and for working capital and other purposes, the timing and amount of which are difficult to ascertain. Our cash on hand will likely not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs. When and as we need additional funds, such funds may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional funding when and as needed, our business might fail. Additionally, if we attempt to raise funds in a future offering of shares of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants or depositary shares, or if we engage in acquisitions involving the issuance of such securities, the issuance of these shares could, subject to any anti-dilution provisions, dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. Our brand name and technology may not be recognized in our marketplace, so our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Our brand name and technology are new and unproven. If we are unable to effectively develop and timely promote our brand and technology and establish a leading position in our marketplace, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We believe that the importance of brand recognition and technology will increase over time. In order to gain brand recognition, we may increase our marketing and advertising budgets to create and maintain brand loyalty. We may fail to protect adequately our proprietary technology, which would allow our competitors to take advantage of our research and development efforts. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive processes and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, confidentiality and security procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology, products and processes. If we fail to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or from third parties infringing our patents or misappropriating our trade secrets or provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, effective patent and other intellectual property protection may be unenforceable or limited in foreign countries. If a third party initiates litigation regarding the validity of our patents, and is successful, a court could revoke our patents or limit the scope of coverage for those patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We protect this information with reasonable security measures, including the use of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with strategic partners. It is possible that these individuals or companies will breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to enter cooperative research agreements, we might not succeed in commercializing our TMOS technology and materials. Research and development of commercially viable applications for our TMOS technology and materials may at some point depend substantially on the success of the work conducted by and with our present and future research partners. We cannot be certain that these research partners will make the additional advances in the research and development of these technologies and materials that may be essential to successfully commercialize our TMOS technology and materials. Moreover, although we fund TMOS technology research, the scope and technical aspects of this research and the resources and efforts directed to this research currently are and may remain in large part subject to the control of our research partners. If we cannot form and maintain lasting business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners, or if we cannot obtain proprietary TMOS materials, our business strategy could suffer or fail. Our business strategy includes some dependence upon our development and maintenance of commercial licensing and material supply relationships with high-volume manufacturers of flat panel displays. All of our current relationship discussions with display manufacturers are limited to technology exploration and the evaluation of our TMOS technology and materials for possible use in commercial display applications. Some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers’ entering into commercial licensing and material supply relationships with us. Under our planned technology development and evaluation agreements, we intend to work with strategic partners to incorporate their technologies into our products for the commercial production of TMOS displays. However, many of these technology development and evaluation agreements may last for limited periods of time, such that our relationships with these partners could expire unless they are continually renewed. Our partners may not agree to renew their relationships with us on a continuing basis. In addition, we may continue working with certain strategic partners in evaluating our TMOS technology and materials after our existing agreements with them have expired while we are attempting to negotiate contract extensions or new agreements with them. Should our relationships with these partners not materialize, or once in place, not continue to be renewed, our business could suffer. Our ability to enter into commercial licensing and material supply relationships, or to maintain our existing technology development and evaluation relationships, may require us to make financial or other commitments. We might not be able, for financial or other reasons, to enter into or continue these relationships on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to do so will likely harm our business strategy, operating results and long-term business prospects. Our business prospects depend significantly on our ability to obtain or produce proprietary materials for our own use and for potential sale to display manufacturers. A previously proposed development and license agreement with a national laboratory was terminated in 2007 after it was determined that the targeted material was no longer applicable to the function it was evaluated to provide, and, therefore, there was no need to conclude a further agreement. Our inability to reach agreements to obtain certain other materials from other sources could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from sales of these materials, as well as on our ability to perform research and development work. Further, failure to complete long term agreements could preclude our ability to support display manufacturers that would choose to license our TMOS technology and materials for possible commercial use. Also, a license with a national laboratory or government agency may be subject to significant United States government rights and restrictions that may reduce the Company’s ability to enter into overseas manufacturing agreements and licenses. The United States government will have certain rights to our TMOS technology that might prevent us from realizing the benefits of these technologies. The United States government, through various government agencies, has provided and continues to provide funding to us for research activities related to certain applications of our TMOS technology. Because we have been provided with this funding, the government has rights to certain applications of our technology that could restrict our ability or our licenses to market products to the government for military and other applications, or to third parties for commercial applications. Moreover, if the government determines that we have not taken effective steps to achieve practical application of our patented inventions that were funded by the government in any field-of-use in a reasonable time, the government could require us to grant licenses to other parties in that field of use. Any of these occurrences would limit our ability to obtain the full benefits of our TMOS technology. 18 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. A third party may sue us or one of our strategic collaborators for infringing its intellectual property rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our patent rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaborators may be required to pay monetary damages; stop commercial activities relating to the affected products or services; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products or services; or compete in the market with a substantially similar product. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some of our operations. In addition, a court may require that we pay expenses or damages, and litigation could disrupt our commercial activities. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our processes, products or services may become obsolete. The flat panel display market is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Although we will continue to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, research and discoveries by others may make our processes, products or services less attractive or even obsolete. If we cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our potential for profitability and financial position will suffer. If our TMOS technology and materials are not technically and commercially feasible for broad-based product applications, we may never generate revenues sufficient to support ongoing operations. To generate revenues sufficient to support ongoing operations, our business strategy ultimately requires the development and maintenance of commercial licensing and material supply relationships with high-volume display manufacturers. Before display manufacturers will agree to utilize our TMOS technology and materials for wide-scale commercial production, they will likely require us to demonstrate to their satisfaction that our TMOS technology and materials are feasible for broad-based product applications of which there can be no assurances given. This, in turn, will require substantial advances in our research and development efforts in a number of areas, including manufacturability the development of feasible TMOS materials for TMOS displays and issues related to scalability and cost-effective fabrication technologies for product applications. Our efforts may never demonstrate the feasibility of our TMOS technology and materials for broad-based product applications. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including, without limitation, unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. Technical problems may result in delays and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete, or if we experience significant delays in completing, research and development of our TMOS technology and materials for use in potential commercial applications, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. Even if our TMOS technology is technically feasible, it may not be adopted by display manufacturers. The potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities targeted by us are uncertain at this time. Market acceptance of our TMOS technology and materials will depend, in part, upon the technology’s providing benefits greater than or comparable to cathode ray tubes, or CRT, plasma display and LCD technologies (the current standard display technologies) at an appropriate cost, and the adoption of our TMOS technology by consumers and manufacturers, neither of which has been achieved. Also, many potential licensees of our TMOS technology currently manufacture flat panel displays utilizing competing technologies, and may, therefore, be reluctant to redesign their products or manufacturing processes to incorporate our TMOS technology. Moreover, there may be a number of additional technologies that display manufacturers need to utilize in production or may need to be used in conjunction with our TMOS technology in order to bring TMOS 19 Table of Contents displays and products containing them to the market. If display manufacturers are unable to obtain access to these additional technologies, they may not utilize our TMOS technology. The flat panel display market is currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on LCD technology. Numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of LCDs. Additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. Of particular note, competing OLED technologies have entered the marketplace prior to TMOS and may become entrenched in the flat panel industry before our TMOS technology has a chance to become widely utilized. In each case, advances in LCD, OLED, or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost-effective, have fewer display limitations, or can be brought to market faster than our TMOS technology. These advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. We believe that TMOS display technologies ultimately may be able to overcome certain existing limitations of LCD and other flat panel display technologies, such as high power consumption, costly manufacturing methods, poor contrast ratios and limited viewing angles. However, other companies may succeed in improving these competing display technologies, or in developing new display technologies, that are superior to our TMOS display technology in various respects. We cannot predict the timing or extent to which such improvements or developments may occur. If our TMOS technology is unable to capture a substantial portion of the overall display market for these competitive reasons, our business strategy may fail. Many of our competitors have greater resources, and it may be difficult to compete against them. The flat panel display industry is characterized by intense competition. Many of our competitors have better name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, personnel and/or research capabilities than we do. They have made and continue to make substantial investments in improving their technologies and manufacturing processes. In addition, we believe that at times in the past some plasma and LCD display panel manufacturers have priced their products below the marginal cost of production in an attempt to establish, retain or increase market share. Because of these circumstances, it may be difficult to compete successfully in the display market. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel or the failure to attract additional key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key employees could severely and negatively impact our operations. Specifically, the loss of services of Reed J. Killion, President, Jim Tassone, Chief Financial Officer, Dan Van Ostrand, Executive Vice President, B. Tod Cox, Vice President of Engineering or Robert Petcavich, Vice President & General Manager Opcuity Films , none of whom has an employment agreement with us except for Mr. Killion and Mr. Tassone, could significantly harm our business. We have no present intention of obtaining key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers or management. Additionally, competition for highly skilled technical, managerial and other personnel is intense. As our business develops, we might not be able to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate the highly skilled managers and employees we need to be successful. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel, our business will suffer and might fail. Uni-Pixel is receiving limited indemnification from certain current and former principals of our predecessor company, Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc. Although the predecessor company to Uni-Pixel and Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc., Super Shops, Inc., filed for bankruptcy and received plan confirmation for its plan of reorganization on July 31, 2000, Uni-Pixel, Inc. has never filed nor been a party to any reorganization, liquidation or other proceeding under the Federal Bankruptcy Code and may therefore have liabilities of which we are currently unaware. Uni-Pixel received typical representations and warranties from the former principals of Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc. pursuant to the merger agreement by and among Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc., Uni-Pixel Displays, Inc., Gemini V, Inc. and Uni-Pixel Merger Sub, Inc. However, Uni-Pixel will only receive the following indemnification protection from the former principals of Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc. for its liabilities and claims: (i) for the period of July 31, 2000 (the confirmation date of Super Shops, Inc.’s plan of reorganization) through June 13, 2001 from Halter Financial Group, Inc., a stockholder of Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc.; (ii) for the period of June 14, 2001 through November 14, 2004 from David DiSalvo, the former President, Secretary, Treasurer and sole board member for Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc.; and (iii) for the period of November 15, 2004 going forward from Frank M. DeLape, the former Chairman of the Board of Uni-Pixel, Inc. 20 Table of Contents The indemnification protection provided by Halter Financial Group, Inc., David DiSalvo and Frank M. DeLape is further limited, in the aggregate, to the value of our Common Stock received by each of the indemnitors in the merger transaction with Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc. determined by multiplying the number of shares of Common Stock received by each pursuant to the merger by $1.75. Frank M. DeLape received approximately 1,812,800 shares of Common Stock, Halter Financial Group received approximately 380,000 shares of Common Stock and David DiSalvo received approximately 75,000 shares of Common Stock. Therefore, the highest dollar amount that any one of these parties will indemnify us for during his or its indemnification period as described in the preceding paragraph, is $3,172,400. If indemnification claims do arise with respect to any liabilities or claims of or against Real-Estateforlease.com, Inc., and either (i) Messrs. DiSalvo, Halter and DeLape are unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, or (ii) such liabilities or claims exceed $3,172,400, we would suffer a loss, which loss would impact our financial condition and the value of our Common Stock and our Preferred Stock. If the liability or claim is substantially in excess of $3,172,400, we might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection. The flat panel display industry has historically experienced significant downturns, which may adversely affect the demand for and pricing of our TMOS technology and materials. The flat panel display industry has experienced significant periodic downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity and erosion of average selling prices. Our business strategy to some degree is dependent on display manufacturers building and selling displays that incorporate our TMOS technologies and materials. Industry-wide fluctuations and downturns in the demand for flat panel displays, and low power consumption or high performance displays in particular, would likely affect the demand for and pricing of our TMOS technologies and materials and could cause significant harm to our business. Risks Related to Owning Our Securities Our Common Stock has traded only sporadically and is expected to experience significant price and volume volatility in the future which substantially increases the risk of loss to persons owning our Common Stock. There was no public market for our Common Stock prior to February 3, 2005. At best, only a limited market has developed and is expected to continue to develop in the foreseeable future for our Common Stock. Because of the limited trading market for our Common Stock, and the possible price volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of Common Stock when you desire to do so. The inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our Common Stock may suffer greater declines because of its price volatility. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our stock will create or sustain an active and orderly trading market. If such a market were to develop, the market price of our Common Stock may continue to be highly volatile. The sale of a large block of shares could depress the price of our Common Stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading in its securities. The value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our Common Stock: · Disappointing results from our development efforts; · Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; · Decline in demand for our Common Stock; · Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; · Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; · Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; · General economic trends; · Variations in our quarterly operating results; · Our inability to increase revenues: · Announcement of new customer relationships by our competitors; · Departures of our executive officers; · General conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates; · Developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; · Developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; · Any significant acts of terrorism against the United States; and 21 Table of Contents · Our currently limited public float. Our Common Stock has traded as low as $0.38 and as high as $5.50 during a period from February 3, 2005 through December 31, 2008. In addition to volatility associated with Bulletin Board securities in general, the markets for high technology stocks have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of the particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. We are not required to meet or maintain any listing standards for our Common Stock to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which could affect our stockholders’ ability to access trading information about our Common Stock. The OTC Bulletin Board is separate and distinct from the NASDAQ Stock Market. Although the OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (“NASD”) that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices, and volume information in over-the-counter equity securities like our Common Stock, we are not required to meet or maintain any qualitative or quantitative listing standards for our Common Stock to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our Common Stock does not presently meet the minimum listing standards for listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market or any national securities exchange which could affect our stockholders’ ability to access trading information about our Common Stock. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered to be a less efficient market than the established exchanges or the NASDAQ markets. While we anticipate seeking to be listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or a national exchange at some time in the future, it is impossible at this time to predict when, if ever, such application will be made or whether such application will be successful. Our Common Stock may be subject to penny stock rules, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their Common Stock. Our Common Stock is subject to certain rules and regulations relating to “penny stocks” (generally defined as any equity security that is not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market and that has a price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions). Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks are subject to certain “sales practice requirements” for sales in certain non-exempt transactions (i.e., sales to persons other than established customers and institutional “accredited investors”), including requiring delivery of a standardized risk disclosure document relating to the penny stock market and monthly statements disclosing recent bid and offer quotations for the penny stock held in the account, and certain other restrictions. If the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this, as well as the fact that the broker-dealer has presumed control over the market. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. For as long as our securities are subject to the rules on penny stocks, the liquidity of our Common Stock could be significantly limited. This lack of liquidity may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares of Common Stock, and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to develop and expand our business operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 