Item 1A. Risk Factors We must deal with several risk factors during the normal course of business. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially affected. Risks Relating to our Capital Stock Certain of our current and former providers may bring materially dilutive claims against us. Between approximately 1985 and 1994, our predecessor managed care subsidiary, Seguros de Servicios de Salud de Puerto Rico, Inc. (“SSS”) generally entered into an agreement with each new physician or dentist who joined the Corporation’s provider network to sell the provider shares of SSS at a future date (each a “Share Acquisition Agreement”). These agreements were necessary because there were not enough authorized shares of SSS available during this period and afterwards for issuance to all new providers. Each Share Acquisition Agreement committed SSS to sell, and each new provider to purchase, five $40-par-value shares of SSS at $40 per share after SSS had increased its authorized share capital in compliance with the Puerto Rico Insurance Code and was in a position to issue new shares. Despite repeated efforts in the 1990s, SSS was not successful in obtaining shareholder approval to increase its share capital, other than in connection with the Corporation’s reorganization in 1999, when SSS was merged into a newly-formed entity having authorized capital of 25,000 $40-par-value shares, or twice the number of authorized shares of SSS. SSS’s shareholders did not, however, authorize the issuance of the newly formed entity’s shares to providers or any other third party. In addition, subsequent to the Corporation’s reorganization, TSM’s shareholders did not approve attempts to increase TSM’s share capital in 2002 and 2003. Notwithstanding the fact that TSI and its predecessors were never in a position to issue new shares to providers as contemplated by the Share Acquisition Agreements because shareholder approval for such issuance was never obtained, and the fact that SSS on several occasions in the 1990s offered providers the opportunity to purchase shares of its treasury stock and such offers were accepted by very few providers, providers who entered into Share Acquisition Agreements may claim that the Share Acquisition Agreements entitled them to acquire shares of TSI or TSM at a subscription price equivalent to that provided for in the Share Acquisition Agreements. SSS entered into Share Acquisition Agreements with approximately 3,000 providers, the substantial majority of whom never came to own shares of SSS. Such Share Acquisition Agreements provide for the purchase and sale of approximately 15,000 shares of SSS. Were TSI or TSM required to issue a significant number of shares in respect of these Agreements, the interest Page19 Table of Contents of existing shareholders in the Corporation would be substantially diluted. As of the date of this annual report, although no judicial claims of this nature have been commenced, our records indicate that the Corporation has received inquiries with respect to at least approximately 500 shares under Share Acquisition Agreements. Management has been advised by Puerto Rico counsel that, on the basis of a reasoned analysis, while the matter is not free from doubt and there are no applicable controlling precedents, the Corporation should prevail if litigation of these claims were to be commenced by providers because, among other defenses, the condition precedent to SSS’s obligations under the Share Acquisition Agreements never occurred, and any obligation it or its subsidiaries or predecessors may have had under the Share Acquisition Agreements should be understood to have expired prior to our corporate reorganization, which took effect in 1999, although the Share Acquisition Agreements do not expressly provide for any expiration. Management believes the Corporation should prevail in litigation if any judicial claims are commenced with respect to these matters; however, the Corporation cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation, including with respect to the magnitude of any claims that may be asserted by any plaintiff, and the interests of the Corporation’s shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that claims under the Share Acquisition Agreements are successful. Heirs of certain of our former shareholders may bring materially dilutive claims against us. For much of its history, the Corporation and its predecessor entities have restricted the ownership or transferability of their shares, including by reserving to TSM or its predecessors a right of first refusal with respect to share transfers and by limiting ownership of such shares to physicians and dentists. In addition, TSM and its predecessors, consistent with the requirements of their by-laws, have sought to repurchase shares of deceased shareholders at the amount originally paid for such shares by those shareholders. Nonetheless, the Corporation anticipates that some former shareholders’ heirs who were not eligible to own or be transferred shares because they were not physicians or dentists at the time of their purported inheritance (“Non-medical Heirs”), may claim an entitlement to TSM shares or to damages in respect to the repurchased shares notwithstanding applicable transfer and ownership restrictions. Our records indicate that there may be as many as approximately 450 Non-medical Heirs who may claim to have inherited up to 3,500 shares, although no judicial claims in this regard have ever been initiated. Our records indicate that, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have received inquiries from Non-medical Heirs with respect to approximately 420 shares. Management believes that the Corporation should generally prevail against any such claims if brought; however, management cannot predict the outcome of any eventual litigation regarding these Non-medical Heirs. The interests of the Corporation’s existing shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that any such claims are successful. Risks Related to Our Business Our inability to contain managed care costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. Substantially all of our managed care revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by contracts with our commercial customers, the government of Puerto Rico (for our Reform program) or the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS (for our Medicare Advantage plans), all of which are typically renewable on an annual basis. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for member acuity, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under these contracts during the then-current terms. As a result, our profitability in any year depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of managed care services through underwriting criteria, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Reform reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Also, we have in the past and may in the future enter into new lines of business in which it may be difficult to estimate anticipated costs. Numerous factors affecting the cost of managed care, including changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies such as genetic laboratory screening for diseases like breast cancer, the cost of prescription drugs such as ElapraseTM for Hunter syndrome and other new drugs approved for various conditions, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment including the implementation of Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as well as others, may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage managed care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis may adversely affect our business and profitability. In addition to the challenge of managing managed care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may move to a competitor at policy renewal to obtain more favorable premiums. Future Medicare and Reform Page20 Table of Contents premium rate levels may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain medical expense or other federal budgetary constraints. In particular, in the past the government of Puerto Rico has adopted several measures to control Reform expenditures, such as closer and continuous scrutiny of participants’ eligibility, redesign of benefits, co-payments, deductibles, and requiring the establishment of disease management programs. Changes in the Medicare and Reform program, including with respect to funding, may lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, or reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare and the Reform. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current provider agreements and to enter into other appropriate agreements. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other managed care providers. We face heavy competition from other managed care plans to enter into contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers in our provider networks. Consolidation in our industry, both on the provider side and on the managed care side, only exacerbates this competition. Currently certain providers are pressing for legislation that would allow them to negotiate service fees by provider groups. The failure to maintain or to secure new cost-effective managed care provider contracts may result in a loss in membership or higher medical costs. In addition, our inability to contract with providers could adversely affect our business. A reduction in the enrollment in our managed care programs could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. A reduction in the number of enrollees in our managed care programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our exit from a specific market; reductions in workforce by existing customers; negative publicity and news coverage; failure to maintain the BCBS license; and any general economic downturn that results in business failures. We are dependent on a small number of government contracts to generate a significant amount of the revenues of our managed care business. Our managed care business participates in government contracts that generate a significant amount of our consolidated premiums earned, net, as follows: • Reform Program. We participate in the government of Puerto Rico Health Reform to provide health coverage to medically indigent citizens in Puerto Rico. Our results of operations have depended to a significant extent on our participation in the Reform program. During each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Reform program has accounted for 30.2%, 37.0% and 37.3%, respectively , of our consolidated premiums earned, net. During these periods, we were the sole Reform provider in three of the eight Reform regions in Puerto Rico. Since we obtained our first Reform contract in 1995, we have been the sole provider for two to three regions each year. The contract for each geographical area is subject to termination in the event of any non-compliance by the insurance company which is not corrected or cured to the satisfaction of the government entity overseeing the Reform, or on ninety days’ prior written notice in the event that the government determines that there is an insufficiency of funds to finance the Reform. These contracts have one-year terms and expire on September 30 of each year. Upon the expiration of the contract for a geographical area, the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico usually commences an open bidding process for such area. In October 2006, we were informed that the new contract to serve one of these regions, Metro-North, had been awarded to another managed care company effective November 1, 2006. During each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, this region accounted for 10.7%, 14.6% and 14.2%, respectively, of our consolidated premiums earned, net and 7.3%, 10.3% and 9.3%, respectively, of our consolidated operating income. We intend to continue to participate in the Reform program, but we may not be able to retain the right to service a particular geographical area in which we currently operate after the expiration of our current or any future contracts. • Medicare Advantage: We provide services through our Medicare Advantage health plans pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS. These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year. Each of our contracts with CMS is terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully re-bid or compete for any of these contracts, or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business would be materially impaired. Contracts with CMS represented 11.3% of our consolidated premiums earned, net and 45.9% of our consolidated operating income during the year ended December 31, 2006 and may in the future represent a greater percentage of our results. Page21 Table of Contents • Commercial: Our managed care subsidiary is a qualified contractor to provide managed care coverage to federal government employees within Puerto Rico. Such coverage is provided pursuant to a contract with the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, or OPM, that is subject to termination in the event of noncompliance not corrected to the satisfaction of the OPM. Premiums generated under this contract represented 7.5%, 8.2% and 8.3% of our consolidated premiums earned, net during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. If any of these contracts is terminated for any reason, including by reason of any noncompliance by us, or not renewed or replaced by a comparable contract, our premiums would be materially adversely affected. The further loss or non-renewal of either of our Reform contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could result in the downsizing of certain personnel, the cancellation of lease agreements of certain premises and of certain contracts, and severance payments, among others. A change in our managed care product mix may impact our profitability. Our managed care products that involve greater potential risk, such as fully insured arrangements, generally tend to be more profitable than administrative services products and those managed care products where employer groups retain the risk, such as self-funded financial arrangements. There has been a trend in recent years among our commercial customers of moving from fully-insured plans to self-funded, or ASO, arrangements. In addition, the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico began a pilot project in 2003 in one of the eight geographical areas under which it contracted services on an ASO basis for certain members instead of contracting on a fully insured basis. This project was subsequently extended to the Metro-North region, which was served by us until October 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that the government will not implement such a program in areas served by us. As of December 31, 2006, 83.9% of our managed care customers had fully insured arrangements and 16.1% had ASO arrangements, as compared to approximately 87.8% and 12.2%, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. Unfavorable changes in the relative profitability or customer participation among our various products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported claims would affect our reported financial results. A portion of the claim liabilities recorded by our insurance segments represents an estimate of amounts needed to pay and adjust anticipated claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. These amounts are based on estimates of the ultimate expected cost of claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under each segment’s current facts and circumstances. Accordingly, the ultimate liability may be in excess of or less than the amount provided. We regularly compare prior period liabilities to re-estimated claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development; any difference between these amounts is adjusted in the operations of the period determined. Additional information on how each reportable segment determines its claim liabilities, and the variables considered in the development of this amount, is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Critical Accounting Policies”. Actual experience will likely differ from assumed experience, and to the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the Blue Shield name and mark could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a party to license agreements with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, or BCBSA, which entitle us to the exclusive use of the Blue Shield name and mark in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. We believe that the Blue Shield name and mark are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the Blue Shield name and mark. Failure to comply with any of these requirements and restrictions could result in a termination of the license agreements. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. Additional information about BCBSA requirements is included under “Item 1 — Products and Services — Blue Shield License”. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Upon any event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the Blue Shield name and mark in Puerto Rico. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the Blue Shield name and mark in Puerto Rico to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the Page22 Table of Contents appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. Accordingly, termination of the license agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the BCBSA requires us to comply with certain specified levels of RBC. RBC is designed to identify weakly capitalized companies by comparing each company’s adjusted surplus to its required surplus (the RBC ratio). Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, we may be unable to continue to comply in the future. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation or loss of our BCBS license. Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which would allow the BCBSA to “re-establish” a Blue Shield presence in the vacated service area with another managed care company. Through December 31, 2006 the fee is set at $83.41 per licensed enrollee. If the re-establishment fee was applied to our total Blue Shield enrollees, we would be assessed approximately $81.7 million by the BCBSA. Our ability to manage our exposure to underwriting risks in our life insurance and property and casualty insurance businesses depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance coverage. Reinsurance is the practice of transferring part of an insurance company’s liability and premium under an insurance policy to another insurance company. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. In the year ended December 31, 2006, 41.3%, or $65.7 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 10.6%, or $9.7 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to changing market conditions and may vary significantly over time. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance coverage will increase our risk of loss. We may be unable to maintain our desired reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or obtain new coverage, it will be difficult for us to manage our underwriting risks and operate our business profitably. It is also possible that the losses we experience on insured risks for which we have obtained reinsurance will exceed the coverage limits of the reinsurance. If the amount of our reinsurance coverage is insufficient, our insurance losses could increase substantially. If our reinsurers do not pay our claims or do not pay them in a timely manner, we may incur losses. We are subject to loss and credit risk with respect to the reinsurers with whom we deal because buying reinsurance does not relieve us of our liability to policyholders. In accordance with general industry practices, our property and casualty and life insurance subsidiaries annually purchase reinsurance to protect them from the impact of large unforeseen losses and prevent sudden and unpredictable changes in our net income and stockholders equity. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligations to policyholders. In the event that all or any of the reinsurance companies are unable to meet their obligations under existing reinsurance agreements or pay on a timely basis, we will continue to be liable to our policyholders notwithstanding such defaults or delays. If our reinsurers are not capable of fulfilling their financial obligations to us, our insurance losses would increase, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating or our inability to increase our A.M. Best rating could affect our ability to write new business or renew our existing business in our property and casualty segment. Ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor influencing the competitive position the property and casualty of insurance companies in Puerto Rico. In July 2006, as a result of the additional indebtedness we incurred in connection with the acquisition of GA Life, A.M. Best although maintaining our property and casualty insurance subsidiary’s rating of A-; changed the outlook to negative. A.M. Best ratings represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Financial strength ratings are used by brokers and customers as a means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A.M. Best reviews its ratings periodically and we may not be able to maintain our current ratings in the future. A downgrade of our property and casualty subsidiary’s rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing desirable property business or from renewing our existing business. The lines of business that property and casualty subsidiary writes and the market in which it operates are particularly sensitive to changes in A.M. Best financial strength ratings. Significant competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Managed Care The managed care industry in Puerto Rico is very competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively while appropriately pricing the business subscribed, our business and financial condition could be materially affected. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, speed Page23 Table of Contents of claim payments and reputation. This competitive environment has produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on the profitability of managed care companies. In addition, the managed care market in Puerto Rico, other than the Medicare Advantage market, is mature. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Puerto Rico’s population grew by 0.4% between July 2004 and 2005, less than half the national population rate growth of 0.9% during the same period. As a result, in order to increase our profitability we must increase our membership in the new Medicare Advantage program, increase market share in the commercial sector, improve our operating profit margins, make acquisitions or expand geographically. In Puerto Rico, several new managed care plans and other entities have been awarded contracts for Medicare Advantage or stand-alone Medicare prescription drug plans and entered that market in 2006. We anticipate that these other plans will aggressively market their benefits to our current and our prospective members. Although we believe that we market an attractive offering, there are no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully with these other plans for new members, or that our current members will not choose to terminate their relationship with us and enroll in these other plans. Concentration in our industry also has created an increasingly competitive environment, both for customers and for potential acquisition targets, which may make it difficult for us to grow our business. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may have difficulty competing with larger managed care companies, which can create downward price pressures on premium rates. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressures faced by us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislation at the federal and local levels also may result in increased competition in our market. While we do not anticipate that any of the current legislative proposals of which we are aware would increase the competition we face, future legislative proposals, if enacted, might do so. Complementary Products The property and casualty insurance market in Puerto Rico is extremely competitive. Due to the relatively low level of economic growth in Puerto Rico, there are few new sources of business in this segment. As a result, property and casualty insurance companies compete for the same accounts through aggressive pricing, more favorable policy terms and better quality of services. We also face heavy competition in the life and disability insurance market. We believe these trends will continue. There can be no assurance that these competitive pressures will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a holding company, we are largely dependent on rental payments, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries, although the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us is subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance, including maintenance of minimum levels of capital, as well as covenant restrictions in their indebtedness. We are a holding company whose assets include, among other things, all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. We principally rely on rental income and dividends from our subsidiaries to fund our debt service, dividend payments and operating expenses, although our subsidiaries do not declare dividends every year. We also benefit to a lesser extent from income on our investment portfolio. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance. These regulations, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital which range by type of insurance from $1.0 million to $3.0 million, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, if any, business and other legal restrictions. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries have a superior claim to such subsidiaries’ assets. Our subsidiaries may not be able to pay dividends or otherwise contribute or distribute funds to us in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations. In addition, from time to time, we could be required to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions to our subsidiaries. In addition, we are subject to RBC requirements by the BCBSA. See “— The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the Blue Shield name and mark could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations”. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. Results of companies in the insurance industry, and particularly the property and casualty insurance industry, historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; Page24 Table of Contents • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made and natural catastrophes; • changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital. Historically, the financial performance of the insurance industry has fluctuated in cyclical periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition, followed by periods of high premium rates and a shortage of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Fluctuations in underwriting capacity, demand and competition, and the impact on us of the other factors identified above, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that underwriting capacity and price competition in the current market is increasing. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the kinds or amounts of business they write or cause some insurers to seek to maintain market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. We may not be able to retain or attract customers in the future at prices we consider adequate. We may be subject to regulatory and investigative proceedings, which may find that our policies, procedures and contracts do not fully comply with complex and changing healthcare regulations. The Commissioner of Insurance, as well as other Federal and Puerto Rico government authorities, including but not limited to CMS, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of the Civil Rights, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the Office of Personnel Management, regularly make inquiries and conduct audits concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. We may become the subject of regulatory or other investigations or proceedings brought by these authorities, and our compliance with and interpretation of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged. In addition, our regulatory compliance may also be challenged by private citizens under the “whistleblower provisions” of applicable laws. The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s time and attention. Thus, any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether it ultimately is successful. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, or a determination is made that we have failed to comply with these laws, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be exposed to criminal sanctions and significant civil penalties, and our Medicare Advantage contracts may be terminated. The laws and regulations governing Medicare Advantage program participants are complex, subject to interpretation and can expose us to penalties for non-compliance. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal fines, civil penalties or other sanctions, including the termination of our Medicare Advantage contracts. The revised rate calculation system for Medicare Advantage established by the MMA could reduce our profitability. Effective January 1, 2006, a revised rate calculation system based on a competitive bidding process was instituted for Medicare Advantage managed care plans, including our Medicare Selecto and Medicare Optimo plans. The statutory payment rate was relabeled as the benchmark amount, and plans submit competitive bids that reflect the costs they expect to incur in providing the base Medicare benefits. If the accepted bid is less than the benchmark, Medicare pays the plan its bid plus a rebate of 75% of the amount by which the benchmark exceeds the bid. However, these rebates can only be used to enhance benefits or lower premiums and co-pays for plan members. If the bid is greater than the benchmark, the plan will be required to charge a premium to enrollees equal to the difference between the bid and the benchmark, which could affect our ability to attract enrollees. CMS reviews the methodology and assumptions used in bidding with respect to medical and administrative costs, profitability and other factors. CMS could challenge such methodology or assumptions or seek to cap or limit plan profitability. Furthermore, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or the DRA, signed by the President on February 8, 2006, directs CMS to conduct an analysis of fee-for-service provider (a provider who receives payment for services based on actual services provided to Medicare beneficiaries and a contractually mandated or CMS-mandated fee schedule) and Medicare Advantage plan treatment and coding practices (methods of documenting medical services provided to and diagnoses of members) and to incorporate any identified differences into benchmark calculations no later than 2008. This revised rate calculation system established by the MMA and amended by the DRA is likely to eventually result in reduced Medicare Advantage payment rates, which could reduce our revenues and cause our profitability to decline. We may also face the risk of reduced or insufficient government funding and we may need to terminate our Medicare Advantage contracts with respect to unprofitable markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as a result of the competitive bidding process, we may in the future be required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium in order to maintain our current Page25 Table of Contents level of profitability, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. CMS’s risk adjustment payment system and budget neutrality factors make our revenue and profitability difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments to our results of operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for Medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS is phasing in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS twice a year for reconciliation with CMS’s internal database. As part of the phase-in, during 2003, risk adjusted payments accounted for 10% of Medicare health plan payments, with the remaining 90% being reimbursed in accordance with the traditional CMS demographic rate books. The portion of risk adjusted payments was increased to 30% in 2004, 50% in 2005 and 75% in 2006, and will increase to 100% in 2007. As a result of this process, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. In addition, our own risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the payments we receive from CMS and our Medicare premium revenue. There can be no assurance that our contracting physicians and hospitals will be successful in improving the accuracy of recording diagnosis code information, which has an impact on our risk scores. Payments to Medicare Advantage plans are also adjusted by a “budget neutrality” factor that was implemented in 2003 by Congress and CMS to prevent health plan payments from being reduced overall while, at the same time, directing risk adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment has favorably impacted payments to all Medicare Advantage plans. The President’s budget for 2005 assumed the phasing out of the budget neutrality adjustments over a five year period from 2007 through 2011. If during the open enrollment season our Medicare Advantage members enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan, they will be automatically unenrolled from our plan, possibly without our immediate knowledge. Pursuant to the MMA, members enrolled in one insurer’s Medicare Advantage program will be automatically unenrolled from that program if they enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program. If our members enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program during the open enrollment season, we may not discover that such member has been unenrolled from our program until such time as we fail to receive reimbursement from the CMS in respect of such member, which may occur several months after the end of the open season. As a result, we may discover that a member has unenrolled from our program after we have already provided services to such individual. Our profitability would be reduced as a result of such failure to receive payment from CMS if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from them. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees and independent agents and brokers. We are dependent on retaining existing employees, attracting and retaining additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains. Our life and disability insurance subsidiary, GA Life, has historically experienced a very high level of turnover in its home service agents, through which it places a majority of its premiums, and we expect this trend to continue. Our inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to market our products effectively, we must continue to recruit, retain and establish relationships with qualified independent agents and brokers. We may not be able to recruit, retain and establish relationships with agents and brokers. Independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us and may frequently also market our competitors’ managed care products. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers. If such agents and brokers do not help us to maintain our current customer accounts or establish new accounts, our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Page26 Table of Contents Our investment portfolios are subject to varying economic and market conditions. We have exposure to market risk in our investment activities. The market values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. Fixed maturity securities expose us to interest rate risk. Equity securities expose us to equity price risk. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity securities owned by us. The outlook of our investment portfolio depends on the future direction of interest rates, fluctuations in the equity securities market and in the amount of cash flows available for investment. For additional information, see “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a detailed analysis of our exposure to interest and equity price risks and the procedures in place to manage these risks. Our investment portfolios may lose money in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Page27 Table of Contents The geographic concentration of our business in Puerto Rico may subject us to economic downturns in the region. Substantially all of our business activity is with insureds located throughout Puerto Rico, and as such, we are subject to the risks associated with the Puerto Rico economy. If economic conditions in Puerto Rico deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of key economic indicators suggest that the Puerto Rican economy is suffering a slowdown, as a result of, among other things, the persistent high levels of oil prices, the current trend in short-term interest rates, the depreciation of the dollar and the deceleration of public investment due to the current fiscal situation in Puerto Rico. If economic conditions in Puerto Rico deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and significant employees, and the loss of any one or more of these officers and their expertise could adversely affect our business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior executives, each of whom has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. While we believe that we could find replacements, the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of our executive officers could adversely affect our business. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the industries in which we operate have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. The success of our business depends on developing and maintaining effective information systems. Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our information systems and the integrity of our proprietary information. We are materially dependent on our information systems for all aspects of our business operations, including monitoring utilization and other factors, supporting our managed care management techniques, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators, and our ability to compete depends on our ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. Malfunctions in our information systems, communication and energy disruptions, security breaches or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, alienate customers, contribute to customer and provider disputes, result in regulatory violations and possible liability, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The use of patient data by all of our businesses is regulated at federal and local levels. These laws and rules change frequently and developments require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. We recently completed a system conversion process related to our property and casualty insurance business. We started the implementation of this system in April 2005 and completed it on October 1, 2006 at an estimated cost of $4 million. In addition, we recently selected QCSI to assess and implement new core business applications for our managed care segment. We expect the assessment to be completed in 2007, at which point we plan to convert our managed care systems over time by line of business, with the first line of business expected to be converted in the first half of 2009. We expect the managed care conversion process to be completed by 2012 at a total cost of approximately $40 million. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these improvements in a timely manner or if these improvements do not meet our customers’ requirements, we may not be able to recoup these costs and expenses and effectively compete in our industry. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other event or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security system and patient data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. Page 28 Table of Contents We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley, and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such a report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation and therefore the report may be uniquely difficult to prepare. We are still performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, which is both costly and challenging. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls as of December 31, 2008, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any required remediation. If we are not able to complete our assessment under Section 404 in a timely manner, we would be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007. We face risks related to litigation. We are, or may be in the future, a party to a variety of legal actions that affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of our products and services. We are a defendant in various lawsuits, including two class action lawsuits, some of which involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts and the outcome of which is unpredictable. While we are defending these suits vigorously, we will incur expenses in the defense of these suits. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in such damage awards could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings”. Large-scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Puerto Rico has historically been at a relatively high risk of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. If Puerto Rico were to experience a large-scale natural disaster, claims incurred by our property and casualty insurance segment would likely increase and our properties may incur substantial damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Covenants in our credit agreements and note purchase agreements may restrict our operations. We are a party to two secured loans with a commercial bank in an aggregate amount of $61.0 million, of which we had a total outstanding balance of $27.6 million and $10.5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006. Also, we have an aggregate of $145.0 million of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.30% notes due 2019, $60.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.60% notes due 2020 and $35.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.70% notes due 2021 (collectively, the notes). The credit agreements and the note purchase agreements governing the notes contain covenants that restrict, among other things, the granting of certain liens, limitations on acquisitions and limitations on changes in control. These covenants could restrict our operations. In addition, if we fail to make any required payment under our credit agreements or note purchase agreements governing the notes or to comply with any of the covenants included therein, we would be in default and the lenders or holders of our debt, as the case may be, could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit agreements or note Page 29 Table of Contents purchase agreements to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and, in the case of the credit agreements, cease to make further extensions of credit. If the indebtedness under our credit agreements or note purchase agreements is accelerated, it could have a material adverse effect in our business for we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. We expect to pursue acquisitions in the future. We may acquire additional companies if consistent with our strategic plan for growth. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • disruption of on-going business operations, distraction of management, diversion of resources and difficulty in maintaining current business standards, controls and procedures; • difficulty in integrating information technology of acquired entity and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • difficulty in the integration of the new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resources and other administrative systems and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • difficulty in the implementation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for filers with the Securities and Exchange Commission at companies that prior to acquisition lacked such controls, policies and procedures; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • dilutive issuances of equity securities and incurrence of additional debt to finance acquisitions; • other acquisition-related expenses, including amortization of intangible assets and write-offs; and • competition with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies. In addition, we may not successfully realize the intended benefits of any acquisition or investment. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry Changes in governmental regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to changing Federal and local legal, legislative and regulatory environments, including general business regulations and laws relating to taxation, privacy, data protection and pricing. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business — Regulation”. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance. Some of the more significant proposed regulatory changes that may affect our business are: • initiatives to increase healthcare regulation, including efforts to expand the tort liability of health plans; • local government plans and initiatives, and • Medicare and Reform reform legislation. The U.S. Congress is developing legislation aimed at patient protection, including proposed laws that could expose insurance companies to damages, and in some cases punitive damages, for certain coverage determinations including the denial of benefits or delay in providing benefits to members. Similar legislation has been proposed in Puerto Rico. Regulations imposed by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, influence how our insurance subsidiaries conduct business and solicit subscriptions for shares of capital stock, and place limitations on investments and dividends. Possible penalties for violations of such regulations include fines, orders to cease or change practices or behavior and possible suspension or termination of licenses. The regulatory powers of the Commissioner of Insurance are designed to protect policyholders, not stockholders. While we cannot predict the terms of future regulation, the enactment of new legislation could affect the cost or demand of insurance policies, limit our ability to obtain rate increases in those cases where rates are regulated, otherwise restrict our operations, limit the expansion of our business, Page 30 Table of Contents expose us to expanded liability or impose additional compliance requirements. In addition, we may incur additional operating expenses in order to comply with new legislation and may be required to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. Future regulatory actions by the Commissioner of Insurance or other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences. We are subject to change of control statutes applicable to insurance companies. These statutes regulate, among other things, the acquisition of control of an insurance company or a holding company of an insurance company. Under these statutes, no person may make an offer to acquire or to sell the issued and outstanding voting stock of an insurance company, which constitutes 10% or more of the issued and outstanding voting stock of an insurance company, or of the total stock issued and outstanding of a holding company of an insurance company, without the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the Articles) prohibit any institutional investor from owning 10% or more of our voting power and any person that is not an institutional investor from owning 5% or more of our voting power. We cannot, however, assure you that ownership of our securities will remain below these thresholds. To the extent that a person, including an institutional investor, acquires shares in excess of these limits, our Articles provide that we will have the power to take certain actions, including refusing to give effect to a transfer or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind a transfer, in order to avoid a violation of the ownership limitation in the Articles. If the Commissioner of Insurance determines that a change of control has occurred, we could be subject to fines and penalties; in some instances, subject to the discretion of the Commissioner of Insurance, operating licenses could be revoked. We are also subject to change of control limitations pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. See "—The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the Blue Shield name and mark could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations”. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements. Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed by our insurance subsidiaries to us. Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply in the future. Failure to maintain required levels of capital or to otherwise comply with the reporting requirements of the Commissioner of Insurance could subject our insurance subsidiaries to corrective action, including government supervision or liquidation, or require us to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions, to our subsidiaries to ensure they maintain their minimum statutory capital requirements. We are also subject to minimum capital requirements pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. See "—The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the Blue Shield name and mark could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations”. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information. Certain implementing regulations of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) require us to comply with standards regarding the formats for electronic transmission, and the privacy and security of certain health information within our company and with third parties, such as managed care providers, business associates and our members. These rules also provide access rights and other rights for health plan beneficiaries with respect to their health information. These regulations include standards for certain electronic transactions, including encounter and claims information, health plan eligibility and payment information. Compliance with HIPAA is enforced by the Department of Health and Human Service’s Office for Civil Rights for privacy, CMS for security and electronic transactions, and by the Department of Justice for criminal violations. Further, Gramm-Leach Bliley, or GLB, imposes certain privacy and security requirements on insurers that may apply to certain aspects of our business as well. We continue to implement and revise our health information policies and procedures to monitor and ensure our compliance with these laws and regulations. Furthermore, Puerto Rico’s ability to promulgate its own laws and regulations (including those issued in response to GLB), such as Act No. 194 of August 25, 2000, also known as the Patient’s Rights and Responsibilities Act, including those more stringent than HIPAA, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult. For these reasons, our total compliance costs may increase in the future. Page 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 