Item 1A: Risk Factors 16 CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADVERSE FINANCIAL RESULTS OR OTHER FACTORS COULD LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS. Our board of directors decides whether we will pay dividends on our common stock. That decision depends upon, among other things, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us, general economic and business conditions, our strategic and operational plans, our financial results and condition, contractual restrictions, our credit ratings, short and long-term liquidity and capital needs, and such other factors as the board of directors may consider to be relevant. If any of these factors are adversely affected, it may impact our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. During the first quarter of 2009, our board of directors reduced the quarterly dividend on our common stock by 80%, from $0.10 per share to $0.02 per share, and the Board previously reduced our dividend in the first quarter of 2008 by 60%, from $0.25 per share to $0.10 per share. There is a possibility that our board of directors could determine to further reduce or eliminate dividends payable on our common stock in the future. In addition, the terms of our preferred stock and junior subordinated notes restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock if we do not make distributions on our preferred stock and junior subordinated notes. Further, we are prohibited from declaring dividends on our preferred stock and from paying interest on our junior subordinated notes if we do not meet certain financial tests, provided that the limitation does not apply if we pay such dividends and interest out of net proceeds that we have received from the sale of common stock. While we were in compliance for the second quarter of 2008, we were not in compliance with these financial tests for the last two quarters of 2007 or any other quarter of 2008. We sold common stock to cover such dividend and interest payments during the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first, third and fourth quarters of 2008, and we obtained a forward commitment from two investment banks to purchase additional shares, at our option, in the second and third quarters of 2008. If we are unable to sell our common stock in the future, and we continue to fail to meet the requisite financial tests, then we will be prohibited from declaring dividends on our preferred stock, paying interest on our junior subordinated notes, or declaring dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program and the perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to such program, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be required for any increase in common dividends per share until the third anniversary of the date of the investment unless prior to such third anniversary the perpetual preferred stock issued pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the perpetual preferred stock to third parties. COMPETITION FROM BOTH TRADITIONAL COMPETITORS AND NEW MARKET ENTRANTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RETURNS, VOLUME AND CREDIT QUALITY. Our markets are highly competitive and are characterized by competitive factors that vary based upon product and geographic region. We have a wide variety of competitors that include captive and independent finance companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, industrial banks, community banks, leasing companies, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage companies, manufacturers and vendors. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and structure. To the extent that our competitors compete aggressively on any combination of those factors, we could lose market share. Should we match competitors’ terms, it is possible that we could experience margin compression and/or increased losses. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REALIZE OUR ENTIRE INVESTMENT IN THE EQUIPMENT WE LEASE. The realization of equipment values (residual values) during the life and at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in the leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. Internal equipment management specialists, as well as external consultants, determine residual values. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on the equipment, excessive use of the equipment, recession or other adverse economic conditions, or other factors, would adversely affect the current or the residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values, including commercial aerospace residuals, are dependent on the manufacturer’s or vendor’s warranties, reputation and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Capital leases bear the least risk because contractual payments cover approximately 90% of the equipment’s cost at the inception of the lease. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment’s value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. Leveraged leases bear the highest level of risk as third parties have a priority claim on equipment cash flows. INVESTMENT IN AND REVENUES FROM OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS RISKS AND REQUIREMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSACTING BUSINESS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. An economic recession or downturn, increased competition, or business disruption associated with the political or regulatory environments in the international markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. In addition, while we generally hedge our translation and transaction exposures, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or the inability to hedge effectively in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our investment in international operations and the level of international revenues that we generate from international asset based financing and leasing. Reported results from our operations in foreign countries may fluctuate from period to period due to exchange rate movements in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly exchange rate movements in the Canadian dollar, which is our largest non-U.S. exposure. Recent weakness in the U.S. dollar has negatively impacted the U.S. dollar value of our revenues that are paid in other currencies. A further weakening of the U.S. dollar will further negatively impact the U.S. dollar value of our international operations. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2008 17 U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) require that income earned from foreign subsidiaries should be treated as being taxed as if they were distributed to the parent company, unless those funds are permanently reinvested outside the United States. To meet this permanent reinvestment standard, we must demonstrate that there is no foreseeable need for the funds by the parent company and that there is a specific plan for reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of the funds by the subsidiary. Federal income taxes have not been provided on approximately $1.3 billion of cumulative earnings of foreign subsidiaries that we have determined to be permanently reinvested. If we sell a foreign business or significant foreign assets, we may not be able to redeploy some or all of the funds generated from a sale outside the United States and would be required to treat the funds as repatriated currently for purposes of GAAP. While it is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that we would have to provide for under GAAP in such an event, the impact on us may be material. Foreign countries have various compliance requirements for financial statement audits and tax filings, which are required to obtain and maintain licenses to transact business. If we are unable to properly complete and file our statutory audit reports or tax filings, regulators or tax authorities in the applicable jurisdiction may restrict our ability to do business. UNCERTAINTIES RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS MAY CAUSE A LOSS OF EMPLOYEES AND MAY OTHERWISE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT NEW EMPLOYEES. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. Failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could materially adversely affect our ability to compete. Uncertainties about the future prospects of our business may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, technical and other personnel. This inability to retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business or to meet our compliance, regulatory, and other reporting requirements. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION RESTRICTIONS ON TARP RECIPIENTS COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RETAIN AND/OR RECRUIT. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Act”) was signed into law. The Act includes an amendment and restatement of Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) that significantly expands and strengthens executive compensation restrictions applicable to entities, including CIT, that participate in TARP. The Act also includes a number of other requirements, including but not limited to implementing a say-on-pay policy that allows for an annual non-binding shareholder vote on executive compensation and a policy related to the approval of excessive or luxury expenditures, as identified by the U.S. Treasury, including corporate aircraft, office and facility renovations, entertainment and holiday parties and other activities or events that are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, performance incentives or similar measures in the normal course of business. The Act’s executive compensation restrictions generally will continue for so long as any obligation arising from TARP financial assistance remains outstanding, other than government-held warrants. The provisions of the Act and importantly the U.S. Treasury regulations that will implement the Act could have a material effect on our ability to recruit and retain individuals with the experience and skill necessary to manage successfully our business out of its current difficulties and during the long term. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 