ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS We are largely dependent on the efforts of our exclusive agents to generate our revenue and service our customers. We currently sell our services through a network predominantly represented by exclusive agent stations located throughout North America. Although we have exclusive and long-term relationships with these agents, our Airgroup agency agreements are generally terminable by either party subject to requisite notice provisions that generally range from 10-30 days. The Adcom agency agreements generally carry a fixed term and can range from 1 to 25 years and generally include a first-right-of refusal to acquire the location. Although we have no customers that account for more than 5% of our revenues, there are two agency locations that each account for more than 5% of our total gross revenues. The loss of one or more of these exclusive agents could negatively impact our ability to retain and service our customers. We will need to expand our existing relationships and enter into new relationships in order to increase our current and future market share and revenue. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, or that any new relationships will be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, we may lose customers, customer introductions and co-marketing benefits and our operating results may suffer. If we fail to develop and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our agents and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may suffer a loss in our business. Increasingly, we compete for business based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site or connect electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent clients from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or clients. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future transaction volumes will decline. In addition, we expect our agents to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from us as customers demand the same from their supply chain services providers. If we fail to hire qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our agents and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose suffer a loss in our business. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services for our clients could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Our profitability depends on our ability to effectively manage our cost structure as we grow the business. As we continue to expand our revenues through the expansion of our network of exclusive agency locations, we must maintain an appropriate cost structure to maintain and expand our profitability. While we intend to continue to work on growing revenue by increasing the number of our exclusive agency locations, by strategic acquisitions, and by continuing to work on maintaining and expanding our gross profit margins by reducing transportation costs, our ultimate profitability will be driven by our ability to manage our agent commissions, personnel and general and administrative costs as a function of our net revenues. There can be no assurances that we will be able to increase revenues or maintain profitability. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, although the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of freight forwarding and supply chain management services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations soliciting bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand which can sometimes be difficult to predict or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, our revenue is, to a larger degree, affected by factors that are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger, global companies in our industry. There currently is a marked trend within our industry toward consolidation of the niche players into larger companies that are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry with global operations. Our information technology systems are subject to risks which we cannot control. Our information technology systems are dependent upon third party communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our customers. If we are not able to limit our liability for customers’ claims through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or International Conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods to $20 per kilogram (approximately $9.07 per pound) and $500 per carton or customary unit, for ocean freight shipments, again depending on the International Convention. For truck/land based risks there are a variety of limits ranging from a nominal amount to full value. However, because a freight forwarder’s relationship to an airline or ocean carrier is that of a shipper to a carrier, the airline or ocean carrier generally assumes the same responsibility to us as we assume to our clients. When we act in the capacity of an authorized agent for an air or ocean carrier, the carrier, rather than us, assumes liability for the safe delivery of the client’s cargo to its ultimate destination, unless due to our own errors and omissions. 10 We have, from time to time, made payments to our clients for claims related to our services and may make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, there are limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or even disputed and which claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. Our failure to comply with, or the costs of complying with, government regulation could negatively affect our results of operation. Our freight forwarding business as an indirect air cargo carrier is subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) under the Federal Aviation Act, and by the Department of Homeland Security and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Our overseas independent agents’ air freight forwarding operations are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the respective foreign jurisdictions. The air freight forwarding industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes which can affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to customers. We do not believe that costs of regulatory compliance have had a material adverse impact on our operations to date. However, our failure to comply with any applicable regulations could have an adverse effect. There can be no assurance that the adoption of future regulations would not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our present levels of capital may limit the implementation of our business strategy. The objective of our business strategy is to build a global logistics services organization. One element of this strategy is an acquisition program which contemplates the acquisition of a number of diverse companies within the logistics industry covering a variety of geographic regions and specialized service offerings. We have a limited amount of cash resources and our ability to make additional acquisitions without securing additional financing from outside sources is limited. This may limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that may limit its current availability. The terms of our credit facility are subject to certain financial covenants which may limit the amount otherwise available under that facility. Principal among these are financial covenants that limit funded debt to a multiple of our consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or “EBITDA”. Under this covenant, our funded debt is limited to a multiple of 3.25 of our EBITDA measured on a rolling four quarter basis. Our ability to generate EBITDA will be critical to our ability to use the full amount of the credit facility. Dependence on key personnel. For the foreseeable future our success will depend largely on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, as well as certain of the other key executives of Radiant Global Logistics, because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with major vendors and owners of our exclusive agent stations. We have secured employment arrangements with each of these individuals, which contain non-competition covenants which survive their actual term of employment. Nevertheless, should any of these individuals leave the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 11 Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our shares trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist acts or acts of war or armed conflict could negatively affect our operations in a number of ways. Primarily, any of these acts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy and could lead to increased regulatory requirements with respect to the security and safety of freight shipments and transportation. They could also result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States and abroad. Acts of terrorism or armed conflict, and the uncertainty caused by such conflicts, could cause an overall reduction in worldwide sales of goods and corresponding shipments of goods. This would have a corresponding negative effect on our operations. Also, terrorist activities similar to the type experienced on September 11, 2001 could result in another halt of trading of securities, which could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our shares and overall market capitalization. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY There is a scarcity of and competition for acquisition opportunities. There are a limited number of operating companies available for acquisition which we deem to be desirable targets. In addition, there is a very high level of competition among companies seeking to acquire these operating companies. We are and will continue to be a very minor participant in the business of seeking acquisitions of these types of companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities are active in acquiring interests in companies which we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us. Consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible acquisitions of these businesses. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these entities, this competition may affect the terms of completed transactions and, as a result, we may pay more than we expected for potential acquisitions. We may not be able to identify operating companies that complement our strategy, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategy, we may be unable to complete an acquisition of such a company for many reasons, including: · failure to agree on the terms necessary for a transaction, such as the purchase price; · incompatibility between our operational strategies and management philosophies and those of the potential acquiree; · competition from other acquirers of operating companies; · a lack of sufficient capital to acquire a profitable logistics company; and · the unwillingness of a potential acquiree to work with our management. Risks related to acquisition financing. In order to continue to pursue our acquisition strategy in the longer term, we may be required to obtain additional financing. We intend to obtain such financing through a combination of traditional debt financing or the placement of debt and equity securities. We may finance some portion of our future acquisitions by either issuing equity or by using shares of our common stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for such businesses. In the event that our common stock does not attain or maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept common stock as part of the purchase price for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available, in order to maintain our acquisition program. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, we will not be able to complete acquisitions and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. 12 Our credit facility places certain limits on the type and number of acquisitions we may make. In September 2008, our $10.0 million revolving credit facility, including a $500,000 sublimit to support letters of credit, was increased from $10.0 million to $15.0 million to facilitate our acquisition of Adcom and to provide additional funding for further acquisitions and our on-going working capital requirements. Under the terms of the credit facility, we are subject to a number of financial and operational covenants which may limit the number of additional acquisitions we make without the lender’s consent. In the event that we are not able to satisfy the conditions of the credit facility in connection with a proposed acquisition, we would have to forego the acquisition unless we either obtained the lender’s consent or retired the credit facility. This may prevent us from completing acquisitions which we determine are desirable from a business perspective and limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. To the extent we make any material acquisitions, our earnings will be adversely affected by non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangibles which may cause our stock price to decline. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified acquired assets and liabilities based on their fair values at the time of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible assets acquired must be allocated among identifiable intangible assets including goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The amount allocated to identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships and the like, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. We expect that this will subject us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because our business strategy focuses on growth through acquisitions, our future earnings will be subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings are derived organically. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. Our financial statements will show that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, when, in fact, we believe they may be increasing because we are growing the value of our intangible assets (e.g. customer relationships). Because of this discrepancy, we believe our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, otherwise known as “EBITDA”, a non-GAAP measure of financial performance, provides a meaningful measure of our financial performance. However, the investment community generally measures a public company’s performance by its net income. Further, the financial covenants of our credit facility adjust EBITDA to exclude costs related to share based compensation and other non-cash charges. Thus, we believe EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA, provide a meaningful measure of our financial performance. If the investment community elects to place more emphasis on net income, the future price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are not obligated to follow any particular criteria or standards for identifying acquisition candidates. Even though we have developed general acquisition guidelines, we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will target companies which we believe will provide the best potential long-term financial return for our stockholders and we will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions. Our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our management team will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to complete future acquisitions. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from the operations of acquired companies to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on the indebtedness, then we will be required to use our capital for such payments. This will restrict our ability to make additional acquisitions. We may also be forced to sell an acquired company in order to satisfy indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably once we incur this indebtedness or that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of proceeds from the ultimate disposition of such acquired companies to repay the indebtedness incurred to make these acquisitions. 13 We may experience difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and assets of companies that we acquire which may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. A core component of our business plan is to acquire businesses and assets in the transportation and logistics industry. We have only made a limited number of acquisitions and, therefore, our ability to complete such acquisitions and integrate any acquired businesses into our operations is unproven. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may develop, in which event there may be fewer acquisition opportunities available to us as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Such acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; · the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · the risk of entering new markets; · the potential loss of key employees; and · the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute any acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover of our Company more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested stockholder”) for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding shares and that amendments to our bylaws require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting. Trading in our common stock has been limited and there is no significant trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently eligible to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, however, trading to date has been limited. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board is often characterized by low trading volume and significant price fluctuations. Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements, general conditions in the industry, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 14 The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We completed private placements of approximately 15.4 million shares of our common stock between October 2005 and February 2006. The availability of those shares for sale to the public under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at prices which we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions which will make it more difficult to execute our acquisition strategy. The issuance of additional shares in connection with the Adcom and other potential acquisitions may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. We have issued, and may be required to issue, additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents in payment of the purchase price of companies we have acquired. This will have the effect of further increasing the number of shares outstanding. In connection with future acquisitions, we may undertake the issuance of more shares of common stock without notice to our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares in order to, among other things, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons in the discretion of our Board of Directors, and could result in diluting the interests of our existing stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Although we have no current plans or agreements to issue any preferred stock, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms for those shares without the approval of our shareholders. Any such preferred stock we may issue in the future could rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, and voting rights. As we do not anticipate paying dividends, investors in our shares will not receive any dividend income. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any dividends that we may pay in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our future earnings, any applicable regulatory considerations, covenants of our debt facility, our financial requirements and other similarly unpredictable factors. Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the terms of our credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. For the foreseeable future, we anticipate that we will retain any earnings which we may generate from our operations to finance and develop our growth and that we will not pay cash dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our stock. We are not subject to certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Since our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, we are not subject to certain of the corporate governance requirements established by the national securities exchanges pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These include rules relating to independent directors, and independent director nomination, audit and compensation committees. Unless we voluntarily elect to comply with those obligations, investors in our shares will not have the protections offered by those corporate governance provisions. As of the date of this report, we have not elected to comply with any regulations that do not apply to us. While we may make an application to have our securities listed for trading on a national securities exchange, which would require us to comply with those obligations, we can not assure that we will do so or that such application will be approved. 15 We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our independent registered public accountants. Starting with our fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we became subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires us to make annual assessments of our internal control over financial reporting. The first attestation report of our assessment that our independent registered public accounting firm will need to complete will be required in connection with the preparation of our annual report for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. Any failure to maintain adequate controls could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. ITEM 