Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The operation of our business, our transition to a bank-centric business model, and the effects of the transactions that were effectuated under the Plan of Reorganization each involve various elements of risk and uncertainty. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as the other information appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making a decision whether to invest in the Company. References in these Risk Factors to the “Plan of Reorganization” are references to CIT Group Inc.’s Modified Second Amended Prepackaged Reorganization Plan of CIT Group Inc. and CIT Group Funding of Delaware LLC, dated December 7, 2009, under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code as such plan is described in and attached to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 9, 2009, which was confirmed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”) on December 8, 2009. Neither the Plan of Reorganization, the projected financial information, nor our disclosure statement previously filed with the Bankruptcy Court are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and such documents should not be considered or relied on in making any investment decisions involving our common stock or other securities. Risks Related to Our Strategy and Business Plan Following our emergence from bankruptcy, we are undergoing a significant change in our senior management team and our Board of Directors, which may affect our long-term business strategy and our ability to develop and implement that strategy. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop, refine, and implement our business strategy successfully following the significant changes in our leadership. Since we emerged from our Chapter 11 proceeding, John A. Thain was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective February 8, 2010, replacing Jeffrey M. Peek, who resigned effective January 15, 2009. Mr. Thain needs to fill several key positions in his senior management team to replace executives who have resigned or are scheduled to resign or retire, including the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, and certain other senior executives. In addition, two members of the prior Board of Directors resigned and seven new directors (one of whom resigned shortly thereafter due to short-term health issues) were identified by bondholders in the bankruptcy proceeding, were appointed by the Board, and will serve with five incumbent directors. The new management team and the reconstituted Board of Directors must either refine and implement the current strategy of transitioning to a bank-centric business model or identify and implement an alternative business strategy. As a result of the significant changes in the senior management team, the senior positions that are still open and the changes in the Board of Directors, there is no assurance that our business strategy will not change significantly or that we will be able to successfully implement that strategy. Although we enhanced our capital structure and improved our liquidity position by implementing our Plan of Reorganization, we are still refining and developing a detailed strategy and business plan, including identifying and securing a stable source of long-term funding. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop and implement such a plan in the time frame available to us. In our bankruptcy proceeding, we consummated our Plan of Reorganization to enhance our capital structure and improve our liquidity position in the near term. By doing so, we were able to extend the maturities of substantial portions of our debt so that most of our borrowings (with the exception of the Credit Facility and the Expansion Credit Facility) will not begin to come due until 2013. We believe this reorganization affords us a period of time to address the significant financial and economic challenges that led to our reorganization and continue to face our company. One of the main reasons we needed to reorganize in bankruptcy was our traditional dependence on borrowing with unsecured debt (commercial paper, medium-term notes, and corporate bonds) to fund our loan and lease portfolio. Due to difficult conditions in the credit markets as well as the adverse impact of weaker economic conditions on our financial performance in recent years, we were no longer able to meet our borrowing needs, and we must develop a more stable, longer-term source of funding, not only to meet our long-term liabilities as they come due but to fund our businesses and once again become profitable. We believe that conducting a greater level of our business activities within CIT Bank to facilitate greater funding stability can help us achieve this goal. As a regulated bank, CIT Bank will have access to certain funding sources, such as insured deposits, that are not available to non-banking institutions. There are significant risks associated with 15 this strategy, however. First, due to regulatory requirements, CIT Bank will generally not be able to fund any businesses conducted outside the Bank and we will need to transfer a substantial portion of our business platforms to CIT Bank in order to use the Bank as a funding source. This will require the approval of our banking regulators, however, and there is no assurance that we will receive such approvals. Moreover, once we transition our businesses to CIT Bank, they will be subject to greater regulatory oversight and there is no assurance that we will be able to conduct them, or achieve growth and profitability in them, as we might wish. Finally, there is no assurance that CIT Bank will become a reliable funding source to the extent we need it to be, either as to the amount of borrowings we might need or as to the cost of funding. This will depend in significant part on our ability to attract deposits at CIT Bank, which currently is limited by its lack of a branch network and by the Cease and Desist Orders restricting the amount of deposits it may seek from brokers, and whether CIT Bank will be accepted by the funding markets as a reliable borrower and on whether and how quickly the availability of funding in these markets is restored. Even if the bank-centric model is successful, we will continue to conduct substantial businesses outside CIT Bank and will need to obtain funding for those businesses in the capital markets and through third-party bank borrowings. We have not yet made final decisions about which businesses should be transferred to CIT Bank, which might be conducted more effectively outside the Bank and which might best be sold or wound down. We believe we have a period of time in which to implement these steps so as to develop reasonably stable funding sources sufficient to support longer-term growth, but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so effectively, including for the reasons noted above. In light of this uncertainty, our new management team will continue to refine our business plan and strategy and may decide to supplement or modify it in significant ways. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure and short-term liquidity position, contemplated that we would refine and implement our strategy and business plan, based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing our strategy and business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Our bankruptcy proceedings, which improved our capital structure and short-term liquidity position, contemplated that we would refine and implement our strategy and business plan based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we considered appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources and establish an appropriate level of debt; (ii) our ability to restore customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient customers; (iii) our ability to retain key employees in those businesses that we intend to continue to emphasize, and (iv) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions of the financial industry, both in the U.S. and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful execution of our strategy and business plan. In connection with our bankruptcy proceedings, we prepared projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of our Plan of Reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. The projections reflect numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and continue to be beyond our control and that may not materialize. Further, the projections were limited by the information available to us as of the date of their preparation, and that information has already changed. In addition, our plans continue to rely upon financial forecasts, including with respect to revenue growth, improved earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, improved interest margins, and growth in cash flow. Financial forecasts are inherently subject to many uncertainties and are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts are even more speculative than normal, because they involve fundamental changes in the nature of our business. Accordingly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization or our strategy and business plan will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Reorganization or subsequent strategy and business plan. In addition, the accounting treatment required for our bankruptcy reorganization may have an impact on our results going forward. 16 Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit flexibility in operating our business. The indentures for the new second lien notes and the agreement governing our Expansion Credit Facility each contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell, transfer or otherwise convey certain assets; create liens; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into a new or different line of business; or enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the new second lien notes or our Expansion Credit Facility and could result in cross defaults against our other outstanding debt and/or credit facilities. Risks Related to Liquidity and Capital If the Company does not maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the FDIC could require the Company to divest CIT Bank or otherwise further limit the ability of CIT Bank to conduct business and/or limit access to CIT Bank by the Company or its creditors. As a condition to becoming a bank holding company and converting CIT Bank from a Utah industrial bank to a Utah state bank, we committed to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 13% for the bank holding company and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 15% for CIT Bank. While our bankruptcy reorganization increased CIT’s capital above the levels committed to with the regulators and reduced our liquidity demands over the next several years, if the Company does not develop a long-term funding strategy and maintain capital and liquidity acceptable to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the FDIC and the UDFI, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the FDIC could take action to require the Company to divest its interest in CIT Bank or otherwise limit access to CIT Bank by the Company and its creditors. Even if we successfully implement our strategy and business plan, inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our future business operations. Even if we successfully implement our strategy and business plan, obtain sufficient financing from third party sources to continue operations, and successfully operate our business, we may be required to sell assets or engage in other capital generating actions over and above our normal financing activities and cut back or eliminate other programs that are important to the future success of our business. In addition, our customers and counterparties might respond to further weakening of our liquidity position by requesting quicker payment, requiring additional collateral and increasing draws on our outstanding commitments. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Although we successfully consummated the Plan of Reorganization, our indebtedness and other obligations will continue to be significant. If the current economic environment does not improve, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our obligations as they come due, and as a result we would need additional funding, which may be difficult to obtain. Although we successfully consummated the Plan of Reorganization, and even if we successfully complete the other steps of our strategy and business plan with respect to our capital structure and our businesses, we have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including potential new securities issued at increased interest rates/cost of capital, which are likely to have several important consequences. For example, the amount of indebtedness and other obligations could: require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce funds available for other necessary purposes; 17 make it more difficult or impossible for us to satisfy our obligations; limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and adverse developments in our industry and business; and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. If we are unable to return to profitability, and/or if current economic conditions do not improve in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to allow us to service our debt, pay our other obligations as required and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may need to dispose of additional assets and/or minimize capital expenditures and/or try to raise additional financing. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully expand our deposit-taking capabilities at CIT Bank, which is currently restricted from increasing its level of broker deposits pursuant to Cease and Desist Orders. The Company currently has limited access to the unsecured debt capital markets and may be unable to broaden such access in the foreseeable future, which will make the Company reliant upon bank deposits and secured financing structures to fund its business in CIT Bank. CIT Bank does not have a retail branch network and obtains its deposits through brokers. The FDIC and the UDFI, pursuant to Cease and Desist Orders, restricted the level of broker deposits that CIT Bank may hold, without the prior written consent of both the FDIC and UDFI. In order to diversify its deposit-taking capabilities beyond broker deposits, the Company will need to establish de novo banking operations or acquire a retail branch network, or internet banking operation and a cash management operation for existing customers. Any such alternatives will require significant time and effort to implement and will be subject to regulatory approval, which may not be obtained, particularly if the financial condition of the Company does not improve. In addition, we are likely to face significant competition for deposits from stronger bank holding companies who are similarly seeking larger and more stable pools of funding. If CIT Bank is unable to expand its deposit-taking capability, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Our liquidity and/or ability to issue unsecured debt in the capital markets likely will be limited by our capital structure and level of encumbered assets, the performance of our business, market conditions, credit ratings, or regulatory or contractual restrictions. Our traditional business model depended upon access to debt capital markets to provide liquidity and efficient funding for asset growth. These markets exhibited heightened volatility and dramatically reduced liquidity. The unsecured debt markets generally have been unavailable to us since the fourth quarter of 2007, and will likely remain unavailable to us for the foreseeable future. While secured borrowing has been available to us, it is more restrictive and costly as interest rates available to us have increased significantly relative to benchmark rates, such as U.S. treasury securities and LIBOR. Downgrades in our short- and long-term credit ratings in March 2008, April 2009 and June 2009 to below investment grade and ultimately our bankruptcy filing had the practical effect of leaving us without access to the commercial paper market and other unsecured term debt markets. As a result of these developments and our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, the Company reduced its funding sources exclusively to secured borrowings, where available. This resulted in significant additional costs due to higher interest rates and restrictions on the types of assets and advance rates as compared to unsecured funding. When the Company entered into the Credit Facility and Expansion Credit Facility, it granted liens on almost all remaining unencumbered assets. In addition, pursuant to its Plan of Reorganization, the Company issued new second lien notes pursuant to which it granted second liens on almost all of its remaining unencumbered assets. The Company’s ability to access the secured debt markets in the future will be affected by restrictions in the Credit Facility and Expansion Credit Facility and new second lien notes, and by the existing level of encumbered assets. The Company’s ability to access the unsecured debt markets or other capital generating actions is likely to be adversely affected by the Company’s outstanding secured financings, which in the aggregate encumber substantially all of the Company’s assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to regain access to the unsecured term debt markets, or full access to the secured debt markets on attractive terms and conditions, and if we are unable to do so, it would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition unless the Company is able to obtain alternative sources of liquidity. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs also is constrained by regulatory or contractual restrictions on the manner in which we may use portions of our cash on hand. The cash at CIT Bank is available solely for the Bank’s own funding and investment requirements. The restricted cash related to securitization transactions is available solely for specific permitted uses under the securitization transactions. The cash of CIT Bank and the 18 restricted cash related to securitization transactions cannot be transferred to or used for the benefit of any other affiliate of ours. In addition, as part of our business we extend lines of credit, some of which can be drawn by the borrowers at any time. During the second quarter of 2009 and into July 2009, we experienced a significant increase in such draws, which significantly degraded our liquidity position. If the borrowers on these lines of credit increase their rate of borrowing, either as a result of their business needs or due to a perception that we may be unable to fund these lines in the future, this could substantially degrade our liquidity position, which could have a material adverse effect on our business unless the Company is able to obtain alternative sources of liquidity. If we do not maintain sufficient capital to satisfy regulatory capital requirements in the future, there could be an adverse effect on the manner in which we do business, or we could become subject to various enforcement or regulatory actions. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, the Company and its principal banking subsidiary, CIT Bank, are required to meet requirements that involve both qualitative and quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. When we became a bank holding company, we committed to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain total capital of 13% for the Company. We committed to the FDIC to maintain a leverage capital ratio of 15% for CIT Bank. Although CIT Bank continues to maintain regulatory capital on a stand-alone basis at or above the levels committed to with regulators, losses during the first nine months of 2009 reduced CIT’s level of total capital prior to our reorganization in bankruptcy below the 13% threshold that CIT committed to maintain when it became a bank holding company, and continued losses in future quarters may further reduce the Company’s total capital. Our capital levels currently exceed the minimum levels committed to the regulators as a result of consummating the Plan of Reorganization. Future losses may reduce our capital levels and we have no assurances that we will be able to maintain our regulatory capital at satisfactory levels based on the current level of performance of our businesses. Failure to maintain the appropriate capital levels would adversely affect the Company’s status as a bank holding company, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and subject the Company to a variety of enforcement actions, as well as certain restrictions on its business. In addition to the requirement to be well-capitalized, CIT Group Inc. and CIT Bank are subject to regulatory guidelines that involve qualitative judgments by regulators about the entities’ status as well-managed and the entities’ compliance with Community Reinvestment Act obligations, and failure to meet those standards may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not maintain sufficient regulatory capital, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FDIC could take action to require the Company to divest its interest in CIT Bank or otherwise limit access to CIT Bank by the Company and its creditors. The FDIC, in the case of CIT Bank, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in the case of the Company, placed restrictions on the ability of CIT Bank and the Company to take certain actions without the prior approval of the applicable regulators. Although our Plan of Reorganization received confirmation from the Bankruptcy Court, if we are unable to finalize and complete our strategy and business plan and access the credit markets to meet our capital and liquidity needs in the future, or if we otherwise suffer continued adverse effects on our liquidity and operating results, we may be subject to formal and informal enforcement actions by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FDIC, we may be forced to divest CIT Bank and/or CIT Bank may be placed in FDIC conservatorship or receivership or suffer other consequences. Such actions could impair our ability to successfully execute any strategy and business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Risks Related to Regulatory Obligations and Limitations We are currently subject to the Written Agreement, which may adversely affect our business. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, the Company must provide the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with (i) a corporate governance plan, focusing on strengthening internal audit, risk management, and other control functions, (ii) a credit risk management plan, (iii) a written program to review and revise, as appropriate, its program for determining, documenting and recording the allowance for loan and lease losses, (iv) a capital plan for the Company and CIT Bank, (v) a liquidity plan, including meeting short term funding needs and longer term funding, without relying on government programs or Section 23A waivers, and (vi) a business plan. The Written Agreement also prohibits the Company, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, from paying dividends, paying interest on subordinated debt, incurring or guaranteeing debt outside of the ordinary course of business, prepaying debt or purchasing or redeeming the Company’s stock. Under the Written Agreement, the Company must comply with certain procedures and restrictions on appointing or changing the responsibilities of any senior officer or director, restricting the provision of indemnification to officers and directors, and restricting the payment of severance to employees. 19 We are currently subject to the Cease and Desist Orders, which may adversely affect our business. CIT Bank relies principally on brokered deposits to fund its ongoing business, which generally require payment of higher yields and may be subject to inherent limits on the aggregate amount available, depending on market conditions. The FDIC and the UDFI have issued, and CIT Bank has consented to (without admitting or denying the allegations), the Cease and Desist Orders, which, among other things, limit the amount of brokered deposits CIT Bank can maintain and restrict CIT Bank’s ability to enter into transactions with affiliates and to make dividend payments. If we are unable to increase our level of deposits through other sources, or to otherwise comply with the requirements of the Cease and Desist Orders, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the Cease and Desist Orders, CIT Bank submitted a contingency plan providing for and ensuring the continuous and satisfactory servicing of all loans held by CIT Bank, which was accepted as satisfactory by the FDIC, and must obtain prior regulatory approval in order to increase the level of brokered deposits held by CIT Bank above $5,527 million (the balance at December 31, 2009 is $5,087 million). In addition if CIT Bank is deemed not to be well capitalized, it may not raise brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. CIT Bank must notify the FDIC in writing at least 30 days prior to any management changes, and must obtain prior approval before entering into any “golden parachute” arrangements or any agreement to make any excess nondiscriminatory severance plan payments. In addition, the FDIC is requiring CIT Bank to submit a liquidity plan for funding any maturing debt and an outline of plans or scenarios for the future operation of CIT Bank if we do not maintain our regulatory capital levels. Many of our regulated subsidiaries could be negatively affected by a decrease in regulatory capital levels or a failure to improve our performance. In addition to CIT Bank, we have a number of other regulated subsidiaries that may be affected by a decrease in our regulatory capital levels or a failure to improve our performance. In particular, the regulators of our banking subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, Sweden, France and Brazil, as well as our SBA and insurance subsidiaries, may take action against such entities, including limiting/or prohibiting transactions with CIT Group Inc. and/or seizing such entities. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company, by new regulations or by changes in other regulations or the application thereof. On December 22, 2008, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approved our application to become a bank holding company and the Department of Financial Institutions of the State of Utah approved our application to convert our Utah industrial bank to a Utah state bank. Most of the activities in which we currently engage are permissible activities for a bank holding company. However, since we are not a financial holding company, certain of our existing businesses are not permissible under regulations applicable to a bank holding company, including certain real estate investment and equity investment activities, and we could be required to divest those activities by December 22, 2010. In addition, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision of the Federal Reserve, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. We are subject to the Cease and Desist Orders and the Written Agreement. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and is not intended to protect security holders. In addition, pursuant to the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, we are required to review the adequacy of resources for corporate governance functions, including whether the staffing levels and resources for audit, risk management, and other control functions are adequate. Providing additional resources in those areas will increase our expenses for the foreseeable future. In addition, if the FDIC and UDFI require CIT Bank to separate all of its operations from the Company, which will eliminate the cost advantages of the scale of operations of the Company, it will increase the expenses of CIT Bank for the foreseeable future. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. In light of current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, regulators have increased the level and scope of their supervision and their regulation of the financial services industry. In addition, in October 2008, Congress passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), TARP and the Capital Purchase Program. Under EESA, Congress also established the Special Inspector General for TARP, who is charged with monitoring, investigating and reporting on how the recipients of funds under TARP utilize such funds. Similarly, there is a substantial prospect that Congress will restructure the regulation and supervision of financial institutions in the foreseeable future. We are unable to predict how this increased supervision and regulation will be fully implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the 20 future. Any such action, particularly in view of our financial condition, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside of the United States. We have subsidiaries in various countries that are licensed as banks, banking corporations, broker-dealers, and insurance companies, all of which are subject to regulation and examination by banking, securities, and insurance regulators in their home jurisdiction. In addition, in several jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom and Germany, the local banking regulators requested the local regulated entity to develop contingency plans to operate on a stand-alone basis. Given the evolving nature of regulations in many of these jurisdictions, it may be difficult for us to meet all of the regulatory requirements, establish operations and receive approvals. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market, on our ability to permanently reinvest our earnings, and on our reputation generally. We are also affected by the economic and other policies adopted by various governmental authorities and bodies in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. As a bank holding company engaged in the financial services industry, our business is subject to extensive and pervasive regulation throughout the United States and in various other countries, and recent initiatives to impose new legal restrictions and requirements on certain financial institutions may materially and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to grow and compete effectively. As a result of the recent crisis in the financial services industry, the President, Congress, state legislatures and various federal and state regulators, as well as governmental authorities outside the United States, have recently put forward numerous proposals to regulate, restrict and tax the activities of certain financial institutions, and these proposals, if adopted, could significantly affect our ability to conduct certain of our businesses, including some of our material businesses, in a cost-effective manner. Some of these proposals would place restrictions on the type of activities in which certain financial institutions are permitted to engage and on the size of certain financial institutions, while others would subject certain financial institutions to stricter and more conservative capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management standards, and these proposals could significantly increase our costs and limit our growth opportunities. Furthermore, other proposed legislation and regulation would impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions. For example, the Obama administration has proposed a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee to be levied on certain large banks and financial institutions, on the basis of their liabilities, in order to recover projected losses by the US Government under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), in which we participated. As currently proposed, this fee would be approximately fifteen basis points, or 0.15%, of an amount calculated by subtracting a covered institution’s Tier 1 capital and FDIC-assessed deposits from such institution’s total assets and would remain in effect for at least ten years. The key features of the fee, including the rate, the nature and scope of the liabilities or other items on which it would be applied and its duration, have not been fully determined and are subject to change, and thus we are unable to predict the impact that this or any similar proposal that has been or may be made will have on our business. In addition, numerous regulators have proposed heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of the compensation practices of financial institutions, and the Federal Reserve Board has issued a proposal on incentive compensation policies to ensure that they do not encourage excessive risk-taking. Among other things, these compensation-related proposals could affect a subject company’s ability to attract and retain highly valued employees. The various legislative and regulatory proposals relating to financial institutions that are currently pending or may yet be introduced may not apply to all our competitors, and if adopted they could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could significantly impair our profitability and growth opportunities. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully implement our project to transform our compliance, risk management, finance, treasury, operations, and other areas of our business to meet the standards of a bank holding company. When we became a bank holding company and converted our Utah industrial bank to a Utah state bank, we analyzed our business to identify areas that require improved policies and procedures to meet the regulatory requirements and standards for banks and bank holding companies, including but not limited to compliance, risk management, finance, treasury, and operations. We developed and we are implementing project plans to improve policies, procedures, and systems in the areas identified. Our new business model is based on the assumption that we will be able to make this transition in a reasonable amount of time. We are currently subject to the Written Agreement, which, among other things, requires us to develop plans to enhance corporate governance, including increasing resources in audit, risk management and control functions, correct weaknesses in credit risk management, review and revise, as appropriate, the consolidated allowance for loan and lease losses methodology, and develop capital and liquidity plans. If we have not identified all of the required improvements, particularly in our control functions, or if we are unsuccessful in implementing the policies, procedures, and systems that have been identified, or if we do not implement the policies, procedures, and systems quickly enough, we could be subject to a variety of formal and informal enforcement actions that could result in the imposition of certain restrictions on our business, or preclude us from making acquisitions, and such actions could impair our ability to execute our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial position. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Businesses We may be additionally negatively affected by credit risk exposures and our reserves for credit losses, including the related non-accretable fair value discount component of the fresh start adjustments, may prove inadequate. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. We maintain a consolidated reserve for credit losses on finance receivables that reflects management’s judgment of losses inherent in the portfolio. We periodically review our consolidated reserve for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans, past due loan migration trends, and non-performing assets. During 2009, losses were significantly more severe than in 2008, and more severe than in prior economic downturns, due to an increase in the proportion of unsecured cash flow loans versus asset based loans in our corporate finance segment, the limited ability of borrowers to restructure their liabilities or their business, and reduced values of the collateral underlying the loans. 21 Our consolidated reserve for credit losses, and the related non-accretable fair value discount component of the fresh start adjustments, may prove inadequate and we cannot assure that it will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. The current economic environment is dynamic and the credit-worthiness of our customers and the value of collateral underlying our receivables have declined significantly and may continue to decline significantly over the near future. Our reserves may not keep pace with changes in the credit-worthiness of our customers or collateral values. If the credit quality of our customer base continues to materially decline, if the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes significantly, or if the markets for accounts receivable, equipment, real estate, or other collateral deteriorates significantly, any or all of which would adversely affect the adequacy of our reserves for credit losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. In addition to customer credit risk associated with loans and leases, we are exposed to other forms of credit risk, including counterparties to our derivative transactions, loan sales, syndications and equipment purchases. These counterparties include other financial institutions, manufacturers and our customers. If our credit underwriting processes or credit risk judgments fail to adequately identify or assess such risks, or if the credit quality of our derivative counterparties, customers, manufacturers, or other parties with which we conduct business materially deteriorates, we may be exposed to credit risk related losses that may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Uncertainties related to our business may result in the loss of or decreased business with customers. Our business depends upon our customers believing that we will be able to provide a wide range of quality products on a timely basis to our customers. Our ability to provide our products on a reliable and timely basis affects our ability to attract new customers. Many of our customers rely upon our products to provide them with the working capital necessary to operate their business or to fund capital improvements that allow them to maintain or expand their business. In many instances, these funding requirements are time sensitive. If our customers are uncertain as to our ability to continue to provide them with funding on a timely basis or to provide the same breadth and quality of products, we may be unable to attract new customers and we may experience lower business or a loss of business with our existing customers. We may not be able to achieve adequate consideration for the disposition of assets or businesses. As part of our strategy and business plan, we may consider a number of measures designed to manage our liquidity position, including potential asset sales. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing all or any of these transactions, because there may not be a sufficient number of buyers willing to enter into a transaction, we may not receive sufficient consideration for such assets, the process of selling assets may take too long to be a significant source of liquidity, or lenders or noteholders with consent rights may not approve a sale of assets. These transactions, if completed, may reduce the size of our business and it is not currently part of our long-term strategy to replace the volume associated with these businesses. From time to time, we also receive inquiries from third parties regarding our potential interest in disposing of other types of assets, such as student lending and other commercial finance or vendor finance assets, which we may or may not choose to pursue. Prices for assets were depressed due to market conditions starting in the second half of 2007 and continuing to today. In addition, potential purchasers may be unwilling to pay an amount equal to the face value of a loan or lease if the purchaser is concerned about the quality of the Company’s credit underwriting. Further, some potential purchasers will intentionally submit bids with purchase prices below the face value of a loan or lease if the purchaser suspects that the seller is distressed and cannot afford to negotiate the price. There is no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for any asset or business dispositions. Certain dispositions in 2008 and 2009 resulted in the Company recognizing significant losses. As a result, our future disposition of businesses or asset portfolios could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, we are prohibited from declaring dividends on our common stock without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition, under the terms of the Expansion Credit Facility and the new second lien notes, we are prohibited from declaring dividends on our common stock until such indebtedness is repaid. We have suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock. We cannot determine when, if ever, we will be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. 22 Uncertainties related to our business, as well as the corporate governance best practices that we initiated under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, may create a distraction for employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to retain existing employees and/or attract new employees. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. Failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could materially adversely affect our ability to compete. Uncertainties about the future prospects and viability of our business are impacting and are likely to continue to impact our ability to attract and retain key management, technical and other personnel, and are creating a distraction for existing employees. If we are significantly limited or unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we lose a significant number of key employees, or if employees continue to be distracted due to the uncertainties about the future prospects and viability of our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business or to meet our operations, risk management, compliance, regulatory, and financial reporting requirements. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Act”) was signed into law. The Act includes an amendment and restatement of Section 111 of the EESA that significantly expands and strengthens executive compensation restrictions applicable to entities, including CIT, which participate in TARP. The Act also includes a number of other requirements, including but not limited to implementing a say-on-pay policy that allows for an annual non-binding shareholder vote on executive compensation and a policy related to the approval of excessive or luxury expenditures, as identified by the United States Department of the Treasury, including corporate aircraft, office and facility renovations, entertainment and holiday parties and other activities or events that are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, performance incentives or similar measures in the ordinary course of business. Although no obligation of CIT arising from TARP financial assistance remains outstanding, we are continuing to apply the corporate governance best practices that we initiated under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to recruit and retain individuals with the experience and skill necessary to manage successfully our business through its current difficulties and during the long term. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease. The realization of equipment values (residual values) during the life and at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in the leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. Internal equipment management specialists, as well as external consultants, determine residual values. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on the equipment, excessive use of the equipment, recession or other adverse economic conditions, or other factors, would adversely affect the current or the residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values, including commercial aerospace residuals, are dependent on the manufacturers’ or vendors’ warranties, reputation and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Capital leases bear the least risk because contractual payments cover approximately 90% of the equipment’s cost at the inception of the lease. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment’s value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. Leveraged leases bear the highest level of risk as third parties have a priority claim on equipment cash flows. A significant portion of our leasing portfolios are comprised of operating leases, and a portion is comprised of leveraged leases, both of which increase our residual realization risk. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements that under certain circumstances give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies under such arrangements which, if exercised, may have material adverse consequences. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements that give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies upon the occurrence of a material adverse effect or material adverse change (or similar event), certain insolvency events, a default under certain specified other obligations or a failure to comply with certain financial covenants. Deteriorations in our business and that of certain of our subsidiaries may make it more likely that counterparties will seek to exercise rights and remedies under these arrangements. The counterparty could have the ability, depending on the arrangement, to, among other things, require early repayment of amounts owed by us or our subsidiaries and in some cases payment of penalty amounts. In these cases, we intend to enter into discussions with the counterparties where appropriate to seek a waiver under, or amendment of, the arrangements to avoid or minimize any potential adverse consequences. 23 We cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding or minimizing the adverse consequences which may, individually or collectively, have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully restructure our business and on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in avoiding or minimizing the adverse consequences discussed above, such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Adverse or volatile market conditions could continue to negatively impact fees and other income. In 2005, we began pursuing strategies to leverage our expanded asset generation capability and diversify our revenue base in order to generate higher levels of syndication and participation income, advisory fees, servicing fees and other types of fee income to increase other income as a percentage of total revenue. These revenue streams are dependent on market conditions and, therefore, have been more volatile than interest on loans and rentals on leased equipment. Current market conditions, including lower liquidity levels in the syndication market and our strategy to manage our growth due to our own funding constraints, have significantly reduced our syndication activity, and have resulted in significantly lower fee income. In addition, if other lenders become concerned about our ability to meet our obligations on a syndicated transaction, it may become more difficult for us to syndicate transactions that we originate or to participate in syndicated transactions originated by others. If we are unable to sell or syndicate a transaction after it is originated, we will end up holding a larger portion of the transaction and assuming greater underwriting risk than we originally intended, which could increase our capital and liquidity requirements to support our business or expose us to the risk of valuation allowances for assets held for sale. In addition, we also generate significant fee income from our factoring business. If our clients become concerned about our liquidity position and our ability to provide these services going forward and reduce their amount of business with us, this could further negatively impact our fee income and have a material adverse effect on our business. Continued disruption to the capital markets or the failure of our initiatives to produce increased asset and revenue levels could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Investment in and revenues from our foreign operations are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign countries. An economic recession or downturn, increased competition, or business disruption associated with the political or regulatory environments in the international markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. In addition, while we generally hedged our translation and transaction exposures, in the past, most of our hedging transactions were terminated by our counterparties as a result of our bankruptcy proceedings. If we are unable to replace our hedging transactions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our investment in international operations and the level of international revenues that we generate from international financing and leasing transactions. Reported results from our operations in foreign countries may fluctuate from period to period due to exchange rate movements in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly exchange rate movements in the Canadian dollar, which is our largest non-U.S. exposure. Foreign countries have various compliance requirements for financial statement audits and tax filings, which are required to obtain and maintain licenses to transact business. If we are unable to properly complete and file our statutory audit reports or tax filings, regulators or tax authorities in the applicable jurisdiction may restrict our ability to do business. 24 We may be adversely affected by significant changes in interest rates. Historically, we generally employed a matched funding approach to managing our interest rate risk, including matching the repricing characteristics of our assets with our liabilities. In many instances, we implemented our matched funding strategy through the use of interest rate swaps and other derivatives, most of which were terminated by our counterparties as a result of our bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, the restructuring resulted in the conversion of our debt to U.S. Dollar, fixed rate liabilities. The restructuring and the derivative terminations left us in an asset sensitive position as our assets will reprice faster than our liabilities. Therefore, any significant decrease in market interest rates may result in a decrease in net interest margins. Likewise our non U.S. Dollar denominated debt was converted to U.S. Dollars resulting in foreign currency transactional and translational exposures. Our transactional exposures may result in income statement losses should related foreign currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. Dollar and our equity account may be similarly impacted as a result of foreign currency movements. During the second half of 2007 and all of 2008 and 2009, credit spreads for almost all financial institutions, and particularly our credit spreads, widened dramatically and made it highly uneconomical for us to borrow in the unsecured debt markets to fund loans to our customers. In addition, the widening of our credit spreads relative to the credit spreads of many of our competitors has placed us at a competitive disadvantage and made it more difficult to maintain our interest margins. If we are unable to obtain funding, either in the capital markets or through bank deposits, at an economical rate that is competitive with other banks and lenders, we will be operating at a competitive disadvantage and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by further deterioration in economic conditions that is general or specific to industries, products or geographic areas. Prolonged economic weakness, or other adverse economic or financial developments in the U.S. or global economies or affecting specific industries, geographic locations and/or products, would likely further impact credit quality as borrowers may fail to meet their debt payment obligations, particularly customers with highly leveraged loans. Adverse economic conditions have and could further result in declines in collateral values, which also decreases our ability to fund against collateral. Accordingly, higher credit and collateral related losses could impact our financial position or operating results. Our business has already been materially weakened by the recent credit crisis. A continued downturn in certain industries may result in reduced demand for products that we finance in that industry or negatively impact collection and asset recovery efforts. Decreased demand for the products of various manufacturing customers due to the recent recession may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans and leases with us. Similarly, a decrease in the level of airline passenger traffic due to the recent recession or other fears or a decline in railroad shipping volumes due to recession may adversely affect our aerospace or rail businesses, the value of our aircraft and rail assets and the ability of our lessees to make lease payments. Competition from both traditional competitors and new market entrants may adversely affect our market share, profitability, and returns. Our markets are highly competitive and are characterized by competitive factors that vary based upon product and geographic region. We have a wide variety of competitors that include captive and independent finance companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, industrial banks, community banks, leasing companies, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage companies, manufacturers and vendors. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and structure. If we are unable to match our competitors’ terms, we could lose market share. Should we match competitors’ terms, it is possible that we could experience margin compression and/or increased losses. We also may be unable to match competitors’ terms as a result of our current or future financial condition. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 