D. Risk Factors We believe that, because of the international scope of our operations and the industries in which we are engaged, numerous factors have an effect on our results and operations. The following describes the material risks that could affect us. Fluctuations in commodity prices may negatively impact the BHP Billiton Group’s results The prices we obtain for our oil, gas, minerals and other commodities are determined by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have historically been subject to substantial variations because of fluctuations in supply and demand. We expect that volatility in prices for most of our commodities will continue for the foreseeable future. This volatility creates the risk that our operating results will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products. Our profits may be negatively affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the countries in which we operate. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of those currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results. The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales are denominated. Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where our mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined. The Australian dollar, South African rand and US dollar are the most important currencies influencing our operating costs. Given the dominant role of the US currency in our affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which the BHP Billiton Group measures its financial performance. It is also the natural currency for borrowing and for holding surplus cash. We do not generally believe that active currency hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders. We may consider currency protection measures appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict limits established by our Boards. Therefore, in any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on our financial results. Exchange rate movements negatively impacted our profit before interest and taxation in 2004-2005 by US$465 million compared to 2003-2004, including US$40 million relating to net monetary liabilities. Our losses on restatement of all non-US dollar net monetary liabilities, including debt and tax liabilities, were US$40 million, US$278 million and US$380 million in the years ended 30 June 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively. Failure to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves could negatively affect the BHP Billiton Group’s results and financial condition Because most of our revenues and profits are related to our oil and gas and minerals operations, our results and financial conditions are directly related to the success of our exploration efforts and our ability to replace existing reserves. A failure in our ability to discover new reserves or enhance existing reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition and prospects. We may have fewer mineral, oil or gas reserves than our estimates indicate Our reserves estimations may change substantially if new information subsequently becomes available. Fluctuations in the price of commodities, variation in production costs or different recovery rates may ultimately result in our estimated reserves being revised. If such a revision was to indicate a substantial reduction in proven or probable reserves at one or more of our major projects, it could negatively affect our results, financial condition and prospects. Compliance with health, safety and environment regulations may impose burdensome costs and if compliance is not achieved our reputation may be detrimentally impacted The nature of the industries in which we operate means that our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental laws. As regulatory standards and expectations are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental remediation expenses. The December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol. Subsequent negotiations have advanced the flexibility of the proposals with the intention of lessening the 11 Table of Contents economic costs to participating countries meeting their emission limitations obligations. It is uncertain at this stage how the Kyoto Protocol will affect our operations and our customers. There is a risk that the Kyoto Protocol may negatively impact our operations and our financial results. Our Petroleum assets in the UK are currently subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. For the rest of our assets, the impacts may be less direct and are more difficult to anticipate. We may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs due to the costs and lost worker’s time associated with the HIV/AIDS infection rate of our southern African workforce. The European Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) system is anticipated to commence operation in 2006. REACH will require manufacturers, importers and downstream users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, to establish that the substances can be used without negatively affecting health or the environment. The extent to which our operations and customers are impacted by these changes will not be clear until the final form of the regulations is determined. These potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, remediation expenses and operational costs could negatively affect our financial results. Despite our best efforts and best intentions, there remains a risk that health, safety and/or environmental incidents or accidents may occur which may negatively impact our reputation and freedom or licence to operate. Land tenure disputes may negatively impact the BHP Billiton Group’s operations We operate in several countries where ownership of land is uncertain, and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership. These disputes cannot always be predicted, and hence there is a risk that this may cause disruption to some of our mining projects and prevent our development of new projects. In Australia, the Native Title Act (1993) provides for the establishment and recognition of native title under certain circumstances. Like land ownership disputes, native title could negatively affect our new or existing projects. In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure Act (1997) prevents evictions from taking place in the absence of a court order. Occupiers who reside on the owner’s land, with the requisite consent of the owner, have rights to remain in occupation unless they breach their statutory obligations as occupiers. A process exists for long-term occupiers to enjoy life long tenure. However, the legislation provides for the option of provision of suitable alternative land for occupation. Furthermore, the Restitution of Land Rights Act (1994) permits dispossessed communities to reclaim land but only where such dispossession occurred after 1913 and as a consequence of a discriminatory practice or law. Both these Acts could negatively affect new or existing projects of the BHP Billiton Group. Actions by governments in the countries in which we operate could have a negative impact on our business Our business could be adversely affected by new government regulation such as controls on imports, exports and prices, new forms or rates of taxation and royalties. In South Africa, the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (2002) (MPRDA) came into effect on 1 May 2004. The law provides for the conversion of existing mining rights (so called “old order rights”) to rights under the new regime (“new order rights”) subject to certain undertakings to be made by the company applying for such conversion. These new rights will also be subject to revised State royalties in the case of certain minerals but this is only expected to be introduced in 2009. The MPRDA also required the development of a Broad Based Socio Economic Empowerment Charter, known as the Mining Charter, for the mining industry with the objectives of expanding opportunities, skills, ownership and employment by historically disadvantaged South Africans. The Mining Charter requires that mining companies achieve 15% ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans of South African mining assets within five years and 26% ownership within ten years. If we are unable to convert our South African mining rights in accordance with the MPRDA and the Mining Charter, we could lose some of those rights. We also could be adversely affected by regulatory inquiries into our business practices, such as the ongoing investigation of the copper concentrate market by the European Commission and Canadian authorities. Additional risks associated with emerging markets may negatively impact some of the BHP Billiton Group’s operations We operate in emerging markets which may involve additional risks that could have an adverse impact upon the profitability of an operation. These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, nationalisation, re-negotiation or nullification of existing contracts, leases, permits or other agreements, and changes in laws and policy as well as other unforeseeable risks. If one or more of these risks occurs at one of our major projects, it could have a negative effect on our operating results or financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to integrate successfully our acquired businesses We have grown our business in part through acquisitions including our acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd. We expect that some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions. There are numerous risks encountered in business combinations and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not recover our investments in exploration and new mining and oil and gas projects There is a risk that we will not be able to recover the funds we spend identifying new mining and oil and gas properties through our exploration programme. Increasing requirements relating to regulatory, environmental and social approvals can potentially result in significant delays in construction and may adversely impact upon the economics of new mining and oil and gas properties, the expansion of existing operations and our results of operations. Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture partners or by other companies. Management of our non-controlled assets may not comply with the BHP Billiton Group’s health, safety, environment and other standards, controls and procedures. Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced production and adversely impact our results and reputation. Increased reliance upon the Chinese market may negatively impact our results in the event of a slowdown in consumption The Chinese market has become a significant source of global demand for commodities. China now represents in excess of 35% of global seaborne iron ore demand, 20% of copper and alumina, 12% of nickel and 8% of oil demand. Chinese demand for these commodities has more than doubled in the last five years but this demand is expected to moderate as the government pursues measures to reduce economic overheating and to increase capital efficiency. Whilst this increase represents a significant business opportunity, our exposure to China’s economic fortunes and economic policies has increased. Sales into China generated just less than US$4 billion or 12.6% of turnover in the year ended 30 June 2005. In recent times we have seen a synchronised global recovery, resulting in upward movement in commodity prices driven largely by Chinese demand. This synchronised demand has introduced increased volatility in BHP Billiton’s commodity portfolio. Whilst this synchronised demand has, in recent periods, resulted in higher prices for the commodities we produce, if Chinese economic growth slows, it could result in lower prices for our products, and therefore reduce our revenues. Inflationary pressures and shortages of skilled personnel could negatively impact our operations and expansion plans The strong commodity cycle and large numbers of projects being developed in the resources industry has led to increased demand for skilled personnel, contractors, materials and supplies and increased demands from governments. This has led, and could continue to lead to increased capital and operating costs, and difficulties in developing, acquiring and retaining skilled personnel which may in turn adversely affect the development of new projects, the expansion of existing operations, the results of those operations, our financial condition and prospects. 13 Table of Contents INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY 