Item 1A. Risk Factors Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements set forth in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC. Those factors include the following: Risks Related to Our Business The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We underwrite property and casualty reinsurance and have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters and, consequently, we expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently difficult to predict, therefore, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business and on our results of operations and financial condition, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and, although we seek to limit our overall exposure to risk by limiting the amount of reinsurance we write by geographic zone, we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. Global climate change may increase the frequency and severity of losses from hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, hailstorms, freezes, floods and other weather-related disasters. - 17 - If the loss limitation methods and loss and pricing models we employ are not effective, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters. Underwriting requires significant judgment, involving assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Reinsurance contracts generally contain limits that restrict the amount that we may be required to pay in the event of a loss. Our contracts typically contain a per risk limit or an occurrence limit and may contain both. Some of our contracts contain an aggregate limit. Property and marine reinsurance contracts with natural catastrophe exposure generally contain occurrence limits. In addition, our high layer property and marine reinsurance contracts generally contain aggregate limits. Casualty reinsurance contracts generally contain either a per risk or an occurrence limit. Casualty clash contracts generally contain an aggregate limit. Few of our other casualty contracts contain an aggregate limit.We seek to manage our risk by limiting our estimated probable maximum loss from a catastrophic event in any geographic zone that could be expected to occur once in every 250 years to a specified percentage of total capital. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. We believe that the computer-based loss and pricing models we use to assess each ceding company’s potential for catastrophe losses is an important part of the underwriting process for catastrophe exposure pricing. However, these models depend on the quality of the information obtained from our ceding companies and the independent data we obtain from third parties and may prove inadequate for determining the pricing for certain catastrophe exposures. Our models may not accurately predict changes in weather patterns related to climate change or the impact of these changes. If climate change causes more severe or frequent weather-related disasters than we anticipate, our losses may exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For our property and casualty reinsurance underwriting, we depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. As is common among reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates or fail to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, we could face significant losses on these contracts. If we are required to increase our liabilities for losses and LAE, our operating results may be adversely affected. We establish liabilities for losses and LAE that we are or will be liable to pay for reinsured claims for events that have occurred on or before the balance sheet date. At any time, these liabilities may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and LAE. To the extent these liabilities are determined to be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, we will have to increase these liabilities and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with laws, regulations and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we do not establish liabilities until an event occurs which may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established based upon estimates of the total losses incurred by the ceding companies and an estimate of the portion of such loss we have reinsured. The liabilities established on our consolidated balance sheet do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are estimates of the expected cost of the ultimate settlement of losses. We do not separately evaluate each of the individual insurance or reinsurance contracts assumed under our treaties and we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. All of our liability estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections at a given time, facts and circumstances known at that time and estimates of trends in loss severity and other variable factors, including new concepts of liability and general economic conditions. Changes in these trends or other variable factors could result in claims in excess of the liabilities that we have established. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The effects of unforeseen developments or substantial government intervention could adversely impact our ability to achieve our goals. Examples of emerging coverage and claims issues include larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and whether the substantial losses from hurricanes, including Hurricane Katrina and Ike, were the result of storm surge, which is sometimes covered by insurance, or flood, which generally is not covered. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to write new business. Financial strength ratings are used by ceding companies and reinsurance intermediaries to assess the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. In addition, a ceding company’s own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, a downgrade of our financial strength rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor that has a higher rating. A.M. Best has assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) with a stable outlook to each of our reinsurance subsidiaries. This rating is the third highest of sixteen rating levels. According to A.M. Best, a rating of “A” indicates A.M. Best’s opinion that a company has an excellent ability to meet its ongoing obligations to policyholders. S&P has assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Strong) with a stable outlook to each of our reinsurance subsidiaries. This rating is the sixth highest of twenty-one levels. According to S&P, a rating of “A” indicates S&P’s opinion that an insurer has strong financial security characteristics, but is somewhat more likely to be affected by adverse business conditions than are insurers with higher ratings. These ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and S&P and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best or S&P. A.M. Best and S&P may increase their scrutiny of rated companies, revise their rating standards or take other action that could lead to changes in our ratings. If A.M. Best or S&P revise their rating standards associated with our current rating, our rating may be downgraded or we may need to raise additional capital to maintain our rating. - 18 - Our reinsurance contracts commonly contain terms that would allow a ceding company to cancel the contract or require us to collateralize all or part of our obligation if our financial strength rating was downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise a cancellation right would depend on, among other factors, the reason for such downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Any such cancellation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Losses from operations may deplete our capital base and create a need to obtain additional capital that may not be readily available in the capital markets or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Losses from operations, including severe catastrophic events, could cause a material decline in our shareholders’ equity. We are dependent on our financial strength and ratings, as evaluated by independent rating agencies, to underwrite reinsurance. A material decline in our existing capital below a level necessary to maintain our ratings may require us to raise additional capital through private financings or the capital markets. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our shareholders. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations, financial condition and financial strength and credit ratings could be adversely affected. We have exposure to credit loss from counterparties in the normal course of business. We may from time to time collateralize our obligations under our various reinsurance contracts by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to us under the reinsurance contract. We have entered into reinsurance contracts with several ceding companies that require us to provide varying levels of collateral for our obligations under certain circumstances, including when our obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated amounts. These amounts may vary depending on our rating from A.M. Best, S&P or other rating agencies. The amount of collateral we are required to provide typically represents a portion of the obligations we may owe the ceding company, often including estimates of unpaid losses made by the ceding company. Since we may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company’s estimate, we may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds our estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. It is also unclear what, if any, the impact would be in the event of the liquidation of a ceding company with which we have a collateral arrangement. Reinsurance premiums receivable from ceding companies are subject to credit risk. To mitigate credit risk related to reinsurance premiums receivable, we have established standards for ceding companies and, in most cases, have a contractual right of offset thereby allowing us to settle claims net of any such reinsurance premiums receivable. We also have credit exposure with respect to retrocessionaires and derivative counterparties. Our retrocessionaires and counterparties to our derivative contracts may be affected by economic events which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the United States. Platinum Bermuda is not licensed, approved or accredited as a reinsurer in any state in the United States and, therefore, under the terms of most of its contracts with U.S. ceding companies, it is required to provide collateral to its ceding companies for unpaid ceded liabilities in a form acceptable to state insurance commissioners. Typically, this type of collateral takes the form of letters of credit issued by a bank, the establishment of a trust, or funds withheld. We have the ability to issue up to $400.0 million in letters of credit under a credit facility that consists of a $150.0 million senior unsecured credit facility available for revolving borrowings and letters of credit and a $250.0 million senior secured credit facility available for letters of credit. This credit facility expires on September 13, 2011. While we intend to enter into a new credit facility in 2011, we do not know what the terms of the new facility will be or if the terms will be the same as or similar to the current terms. If this credit facility is not sufficient or if we are unable to renew it or to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, Platinum Bermuda’s ability to provide reinsurance to U.S. based clients may be severely limited. The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies’ decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently reinsurance premium rates. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity have permitted favorable pricing. We can expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry’s profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what management believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), acts of terrorism, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and income and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. Periods of severe inflation or deflation or prolonged periods of recession may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Unfavorable market conditions may affect our ability to write reinsurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, our business would be significantly and adversely affected. - 19 - Increased competition could adversely affect our profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors are large financial institutions that have reinsurance operations, while others are specialty reinsurance companies. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. We compete with reinsurers worldwide on the basis of many factors, including premium charges and other terms and conditions offered, services provided, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment, claims experience, perceived financial strength and experience and reputation of the reinsurer in the line of reinsurance to be underwritten. We may not be successful in competing with others on any of these bases, and the intensity of competition in our industry may erode profitability and result in less favorable policy terms and conditions for insurance and reinsurance companies generally, including us. Traditional as well as new capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds and various derivative instruments, such as swaps) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as property catastrophe. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in our industry and partially displace our traditional reinsurance products. We could face losses from terrorism, political unrest and war. We have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, political unrest and acts of war. It is difficult to predict the occurrence of these events or to estimate the amount of loss an occurrence will generate. Accordingly, it is possible that actual losses from such an event will exceed our probable maximum loss estimate. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage that we provide for terrorism risk under reinsurance treaties. If we think we can reasonably evaluate the risk of loss and charge an appropriate premium for such risk we will write some terrorism exposure on a stand-alone basis. Otherwise, we generally seek to exclude terrorism from non-terrorism treaties. If we cannot exclude terrorism, we will evaluate the risk of loss and attempt to charge an appropriate premium for such risk. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude coverage, we may not be able to completely eliminate our exposure to terrorist acts. Thus it is possible that these acts will have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on the business provided to us by reinsurance brokers and we may be exposed to liability for brokers' failure to make premium payments to us or claim payments to our clients. We market substantially all of our reinsurance products through reinsurance brokers. The reinsurance brokerage industry generally, and our sources of business specifically, are concentrated. The loss of business relationships with any of our top brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts in respect of claims under contracts to reinsurance brokers for payment to the ceding companies. In the event that a broker fails to make such a payment, we may remain liable to the ceding company for the payment. When ceding companies remit premiums to reinsurance brokers, such premiums may be deemed to have been paid to us and the ceding company may no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not we actually receive the funds. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with our brokers during the premium and loss settlement process. Catastrophic loss protection may become unavailable to us on acceptable terms. We buy retrocessional reinsurance and use derivative instruments to reduce liability on individual risks, protect against catastrophic losses and obtain additional underwriting capacity. Catastrophic loss protection capacity may be limited or unavailable or may be available only on terms that we find unacceptable. If we are unable or unwilling to obtain such protection on acceptable terms, our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, especially by catastrophic losses. Elimination of all or portions of our catastrophic loss protection could subject us to increased, and possibly material, exposure to losses or could cause us to underwrite less business. Any retrocessional reinsurance we purchase that is uncollateralized subjects us to credit risk because the ceding of risk to retrocessionaires does not relieve a reinsurer of its liability to the ceding companies. Therefore, a retrocessionaire’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance contract with us could have a material adverse effect on us. Likewise, counterparties to our derivative contracts may be affected by economic events that could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our financial results. We routinely transact business in various currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our financial reporting currency. Our principal exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is the transaction of business in foreign currencies. We may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately settle claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To the extent we do not seek to hedge our foreign currency risk or our hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rate could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend on our ability to maintain and enhance effective operating procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more people. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting were designed to provide reasonable assurances that their objectives would be met. - 20 - The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to premiums written and earned, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, bad debt, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish our initial loss reserves. Over time, other common reserving methodologies have begun to be employed. Actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. The covenants in our credit facility limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We have incurred indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness primarily consists of publicly traded notes and a credit facility consisting of letter of credit and revolving credit facilities. For more details on our indebtedness, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition – Liquidity – Sources of Liquidity,” in this Form 10-K. Our credit facility contains covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. The credit facility also requires us to maintain specific financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit facility could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them, cancel their commitments to lend or issue letters of credit, or both, and require us to pledge additional or a different type of collateral. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives, by an inability to retain or replace qualified senior management or by an inability to renew the Bermuda work permits of any of our key executives or other key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without the specific permission of the appropriate governmental authority. None of our executive officers is a Bermudian, and all such officers employed in Bermuda, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel and the Chief Executive Officer of Platinum Bermuda, are employed pursuant to work permits granted by Bermuda authorities. These permits expire at various times during the next several years. The Bermuda government limits the term of work permits to six years, subject to certain exceptions for key employees. The loss of the services of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, including as a result of our inability to renew the Bermudian work permits of such individuals, could adversely affect our business plans and strategies or cause us to lose clients. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investment performance may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and ability to conduct business. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations. In addition, we are subject to risks inherent in particular securities or types of securities, such as the ability of issuers to repay their debt. Adverse developments in the financial markets, such as disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, may result in realized and unrealized capital losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and ability to conduct business, and may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including, among other things, widening of credit spreads, lack of liquidity and bankruptcies, may result in significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses on our investment portfolio in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to conduct business. Fluctuations in the mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities markets could result in decreases in the fair value of our commercial mortgage-backed, non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. The commercial mortgage-backed, non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities markets have experienced reductions in liquidity as a result of the recent financial crisis. When financial markets experience a reduction in liquidity, the ability to conduct orderly transactions may be limited and may result in declines in fair values. We have significant investments in these asset classes. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 10% of our total investments were invested in commercial mortgage-backed, non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. The fair value, unrealized gain or loss and average rating of our investments in commercial mortgage-backed, non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition,” in this Form 10-K. Decreases in the fair value of our commercial mortgage-backed, non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio, investment income and results of operations. Our principal invested assets are fixed maturity securities. Increasing market interest rates reduce the value of our fixed maturity securities, and we may realize a loss if we sell fixed maturity securities whose value has fallen below their amortized cost prior to maturity. Declining market interest rates can have the effect of reducing our investment income, as we invest proceeds from positive cash flows from operations and reinvest proceeds from maturing and called investments in new lower-yielding investments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any measures we take that are intended to manage the risks of operating in a changing interest rate environment may not effectively mitigate such interest rate sensitivity. Accordingly, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio, investment income and results of operations. - 21 - Concentration in any particular industry, asset class or geographic region may adversely affect our investment portfolio. Concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular industry, asset class or geographic region may have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio, financial condition and results of operations. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on our investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated rather than diversified at certain periods of time. Further, the ability to sell such investments may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell similar investments at the same time. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Consequently, if our Bermuda tax exemption is not extended past March 28, 2016, we may be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. In November 2010, the Minister of Finance announced that the standard assurance will be extended to 2035, but the legislation required for this extension has not yet been brought before the Bermuda Legislature. The imposition of U.S. corporate income tax on Platinum Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that Platinum Holdings, Platinum Bermuda, Platinum UK Services Company Limited, Platinum UK, and Platinum Regency each operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. corporate income tax because they are not engaged in a trade or business in the United States. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the United States has not been established by the tax authorities, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may successfully assert that any of these companies is engaged in a trade or business in the United States, or, if applicable, engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment. If any of these companies were characterized as being so engaged, such company would be subject to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on its income that is effectively connected (“ECI”) with its U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on its dividend equivalent amount (generally ECI with certain adjustments) deemed withdrawn from the United States. Any such tax could materially adversely affect our results of operations. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The term “U.S. Person” means: (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or organized under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust, or the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. If Platinum Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g., through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. Although there is an exception for purposes of the PFIC rules for non-U.S. insurance companies predominantly engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business, there are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company and there is no other guidance to explain what constitutes the “active conduct of an insurance business for U.S. federal income tax purposes.” New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We believe we should not be characterized as a PFIC; however, we cannot assure you that we will not be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Under certain circumstances, you may be required to pay taxes on your pro rata share of the related person insurance income of Platinum Bermuda. If (i) U.S. Persons are treated as owning 25% or more of our shares, (ii) the related person insurance income (“RPII”) of Platinum Bermuda were to equal or exceed 20% of the gross insurance income of Platinum Bermuda in any taxable year, and (iii) direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Platinum Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns our shares directly, or indirectly through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder's pro rata share of the RPII of Platinum Bermuda for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. Persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. RPII generally represents premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of our shares or any person related to such holder. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by Platinum Bermuda will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of the business of Platinum Bermuda and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Platinum Bermuda. Some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII in any period may be beyond the control of Platinum Bermuda. Although we expect that either (i) the gross RPII of Platinum Bermuda will not exceed 20% of its gross insurance income for the taxable year or (ii) direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) will not own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares for the foreseeable future, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. - 22 - U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on all or a portion of their gains, if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Platinum Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in the form of final regulations. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these proposed regulations will be adopted in their present form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. A U.S. Person that is a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation (defined as a U.S. Person who owns or is treated as owning at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation) that is a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, that owns shares in the CFC directly, or indirectly through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the CFC's taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., “constructively”)) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of that foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of that foreign corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts (other than certain insurance or reinsurance related to same country risks written by certain insurance companies not applicable here) exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. We believe that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, and provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power, no U.S. Person should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of our shares. However, the IRS could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions in our organizational documents. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation was introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. For example, legislation was introduced in Congress to limit the deductibility of reinsurance premiums paid by U.S. companies to non-U.S. affiliates. A similar provision was included as part of the federal budget proposed by the President of the United States for 2011. It is possible that this or similar legislation could be introduced in and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. In addition, existing interpretations of U.S. federal income tax law could change, also resulting in an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. The impact of Bermuda's commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In response to a number of measures taken and commitments by the government of Bermuda, Bermuda is listed as a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented these measures. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations The regulatory system under which we operate and potential changes thereto could significantly and adversely affect our business. The business of reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. Reinsurers licensed in the United States and Bermuda are regulated and must comply with financial supervision standards comparable to those governing primary insurers. For additional discussion of the regulatory requirements to which Platinum Holdings, as a holding company, and its subsidiaries are subject, see Item 1 “Business – Regulation,” in this Form 10-K. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to write new business or, as indicated below, distribute funds to Platinum Holdings. In recent years, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations and interpretations of existing laws and develop new laws. The new interpretations or laws may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. In addition, the U.S. federal government has undertaken initiatives or considered legislation in several areas that may impact the reinsurance industry, including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of reinsurance companies and has enacted the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, which provides for certain changes in the regulation of reinsurance in the United States, as described below. - 23 - The European Union is introducing a new regulatory regime for the regulation of the insurance and reinsurance sector known as “Solvency II.” Solvency II is a principles-based regulatory regime which seeks to promote financial stability, enhance transparency and facilitate harmonization among insurance and reinsurance companies within the EC. Solvency II employs a risk-based approach to setting capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are headquartered in Bermuda and the United States, which are non-EC countries. If the regulatory regimes of such countries are found not to be equivalent to that of Solvency II and if our reinsurance subsidiaries fall below a certain minimum credit rating, then cedants in the EC may be prevented from recognizing the reinsurance provided to them by our reinsurance subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting their capital requirements or we may be required to provide collateral for our obligations to EC insurers. This could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. federal and various state jurisdictions. In the past, there have been congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. For example, if Platinum Bermuda were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than those applicable to it in Bermuda, Platinum Bermuda might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Regulatory regimes and changes to accounting rules may adversely impact financial results irrespective ofbusiness operations. Accounting standards and regulatory changes may require modifications to our accounting principles, both prospectively and for prior periods and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In particular, the SEC has formally proposed a plan to first allow and then require companies to file financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards rather than U.S. GAAP. Such changes, if ultimately adopted, could have a significant impact on our financial reporting, impacting key matters such as our loss reserving policies and premium and expense recognition. For example, the International Accounting Standards Board is considering adopting an accounting standard that would require all reinsurance and insurance contracts to be accounted for under a new measurement basis, contract fulfillment value, which is considered to be more closely related to fair value than the current measurement basis, and would also require that deferred acquisition costs be derecognized and that future acquisition costs be expensed as incurred. We are currently evaluating how the SEC’s initiatives will impact us, including with respect to our loss reserving policy and the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. Required modification of our existing principles, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on our results of operations, including changing the timing of the recognition of underwriting income, increasing the volatility of our reported earnings and changing our overall financial statement presentation. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010. In addition to introducing sweeping reform of the U.S. financial services industry, the Dodd-Frank Act provides certain changes in the regulation of reinsurance in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits a state from denying credit for reinsurance if the state of domicile of the insurer purchasing the reinsurance recognizes credit for reinsurance. At present, it appears the changes specific to reinsurance in the Dodd-Frank Act will not have a material adverse effect for non-U.S. reinsurers such as Platinum Bermuda, however, there is still significant uncertainty as to how these and other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented in practice. Platinum Holdings is a holding company and, consequently, its cash flow is dependent on dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings is a holding company that conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. All operations are conducted by its wholly owned reinsurance subsidiaries, Platinum Bermuda and Platinum US. As a holding company, Platinum Holdings’ cash flow consists primarily of dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings depends on such payments for general corporate purposes and to meet its obligations, including capital management activities and the payment of any dividends to its common shareholders. Additionally, under the Companies Act, Platinum Holdings may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or after the payment would be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. As a shareholder of our Company, you may have greater difficulty in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and certain of our officers and directors are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. - 24 - There are limitations on the ownership, transfer and voting rights of our common shares. Under our Amended and Restated Bye-laws, our directors are required to decline to issue, repurchase, or register any transfer of shares if they determine in their sole discretion that such action may result in a person owning, directly or beneficially, and in some cases indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively, 10% or more of the voting power of all our issued shares. The directors also may refuse to issue, repurchase or register any transfer of shares if they determine in their sole discretion that such action may result in a non-de minimus adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence. In addition, our Amended and Restated Bye-laws generally provide that any person owning, directly or beneficially, and in some cases indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively, shares carrying 9.5% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding shares, will have the voting rights attached to such shares reduced so that it may not exercise 9.5% or more of such total voting rights of the shares. Because of the attribution provisions of the Code and the rules of the SEC regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds 9.5% or more of our shares while other shareholders may have their voting rights increased. Further, the directors have the authority to require from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder's voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the directors discretion to disregard all votes attached to that shareholder's shares. The insurance law of Maryland, the domiciliary state of Platinum US, prevents any person from acquiring control of us or of Platinum US unless that person has filed a notification with specified information with the Commissioner and has obtained the Commissioner’s prior approval. Under the Maryland statute, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of Platinum Holdings without the prior approval of the Commissioner will be in violation of this law and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the Commissioner or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the Commissioner. In addition, many U.S. state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Platinum Holdings may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. Common shares may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda. In addition, sales of common shares to persons resident in Bermuda for Bermuda exchange control purposes may require the prior approval of the Authority. Consent under the Exchange Control Act 1972 of Bermuda (and its related regulations) has been obtained from the Authority for the issue and transfer of the common shares between non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, provided our shares remain listed on an appointed stock exchange, which includes the NYSE. In giving such consent, neither the Authority nor the Registrar of Companies accepts any responsibility for the financial soundness of any proposal or for the correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed herein or therein. The foregoing provisions of our Amended and Restated Bye-laws and legal restrictions will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 