Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of royalties we receive from our lessees, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal our lessees are able to produce from our properties; • the price at which our lessees are able to sell coal; and • prevailing economic conditions. 11 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors that include: • the level of our operating costs; • the level of our general and administrative costs; • the costs of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital; • the level of capital expenditures we make; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; • our ability to borrow under our working capital facility to pay distributions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion in the conduct of our business. You should also be aware that our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and we may not make distributions during periods when we record net income. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our coal royalty revenues and the value of our reserves. The prices our lessees receive for their coal depend upon factors beyond their or our control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • weather conditions; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • worldwide economic conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could materially and adversely affect us in two ways. First, lower prices may reduce the quantity of coal that may be economically produced from our properties. This, in turn, could reduce our coal royalty revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Second, even if production is not reduced, the royalties we receive on each ton of coal sold may be reduced. Our lessees’ coal mining operations are subject to operating risks that could result in lower coal royalty revenues to us. Our coal royalty revenues are largely dependent on our lessees’ level of production from our coal reserves. The level of our lessees’ production is subject to operating conditions or events beyond their or our control including: • the inability to acquire necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry or the electric utility industry; 12 Table of Contents • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • interruptions due to transportation delays; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • labor-related interruptions; and • fires and explosions. These conditions may increase our lessees’ cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time or permanently. Any interruptions to the production of coal from our reserves may reduce our coal royalty revenues. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues, and the loss of or reduction in production from any of our major operators could reduce our coal royalty revenues. If reductions in production by these operators are implemented on our properties and sustained, our revenues may be substantially affected. Additionally, if a lessee were to experience financial difficulty, the lessee might not be able to pay its royalty payments or continue its operations, which could materially reduce our coal royalty revenues. We may not be able to terminate our leases, and we may experience delays and be unable to replace lessees that do not make royalty payments. A failure on the part of one of our lessees to make coal royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property and enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek a replacement lessee. We might not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we did, we might not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the existing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult for us to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated coal reserves, since industry trends toward consolidation favor larger-scale, higher-technology mining operations in order to increase productivity. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our coal royalty revenues could decrease. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations within the constraints of their leases, including decisions relating to: • marketing of the coal mined; • mine plans, including the amount to be mined and the method of mining; • processing and blending coal; • credit risk of their customers; • permitting; • insurance and surety bonding; • acquisition of surface rights and other mineral estates; • employee wages; • coal transportation arrangements; 13 Table of Contents • compliance with applicable laws, including environmental laws; • negotiations and relations with unions; and • mine closure and reclamation. Adverse developments in the coal industry could reduce our coal royalty revenues and, due to our lack of asset diversification, could substantially reduce our total revenues. Our coal royalty business generates substantially all of our revenues. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in the coal industry would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we owned more diverse assets. Any decrease in the demand for metallurgical coal could result in lower coal production by our lessees, which would reduce our coal royalty revenues. Our lessees produce a significant amount of the metallurgical coal that is used in both the U.S. and foreign steel industries. In 2005, approximately 27% of the coal production from our properties was metallurgical coal. The steel industry has increasingly relied on electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes to make steel. These processes do not use coke. If this trend continues, the amount of metallurgical coal that our lessees mine could continue to decrease. Additionally, since the amount of steel that is produced is tied to global economic conditions, a decline in those conditions could result in the decline of steel, coke and coal production. Since metallurgical coal is priced higher than steam coal, some mines on our properties may only operate profitably if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal. If these mines are unable to sell metallurgical coal, these mines may not be economically viable and may close. We may not be able to expand and our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to replace or increase our reserves or obtain other mineral reserves through acquisitions. Because our reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves or other mineral reserves that are economically recoverable. If we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves or acquire other mineral reserves on acceptable terms, our royalty revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we are able to acquire, our royalty revenues may decline and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire additional reserves, there is a possibility that any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Any debt we incur to finance an acquisition may also reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other mineral companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. Any change in fuel consumption patterns by electric power generators resulting in a decrease in the use of coal could result in lower coal production by our lessees, which would reduce our coal royalty revenues. Domestic electric power generation accounts for approximately 90% of domestic coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed for domestic electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and hydroelectric power and environmental and other governmental regulations. We expect new power plants will be built to produce electricity. Some of these new power plants will be fired by natural gas because of lower construction costs compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The increasingly stringent requirements of the federal Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural-gas-fired power plants. 14 Table of Contents Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect the ability of our lessees to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. Our lessees compete with numerous other coal producers in various regions of the United States for domestic sales. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, increased demand for coal attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in additional production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. Any increases in coal prices could also encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting overcapacity could reduce coal prices and therefore reduce our coal royalty revenues. Competition from coal with lower production costs shipped east from western coal mines has resulted in increased competition for coal sales from the Appalachian region and the Illinois Basin. This competition could result in a decrease in market share for our lessees operating in these regions and a decrease in our coal royalty revenues. The amount of coal exported from the United States has declined over the last few years due to adverse economic conditions in Asia and the higher relative cost of U.S. coal due to the strength of the U.S. dollar. This decline could cause competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on coal prices. Conversely, the amount of coal imported into the United States over the last few years has increased. This increase is mostly due to the economic and environmental advantages of some imported coal. A continued increase in imported coal could result in less of our coal being mined and sold and reduce our coal royalty revenues. Additionally, lower priced imported coal could result in lower coal prices that would reduce our coal royalty revenues. Lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of minimum royalty payments. Coal supply contracts do not generally require operators to satisfy their obligations to their customers with coal mined from specific reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, mine operating costs, cost and availability of transportation, and customer coal specifications. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production on our properties will decrease, and we will receive lower coal royalty revenues. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal mined from our properties. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make coal produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from coal producers in other parts of the country. Our lessees depend upon railroads, barges, trucks and beltlines to deliver coal to their customers. Disruption of those transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers, resulting in decreased coal royalty revenues to us. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves. Our reserve estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal our lessees may be able to economically recover from our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of 15 Table of Contents reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, and development and reclamation costs; • future mining technology improvements; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experiences in areas where our lessees currently mine. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on our coal reserve data that is included in this report. Our lessees’ work forces could become increasingly unionized in the future. Some of the mines on our properties are operated by unionized employees of our lessees or their affiliates. Our lessees’ employees could become increasingly unionized in the future. Some labor unions active in our lessees’ areas of operations are attempting to organize the employees of some of our lessees. If some or all of our lessees’ non-unionized operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect their productivity, increase costs and increase the risk of work stoppages. In addition, our lessees’ operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our lessees’ operations. Any further unionization of our lessees’ employees could adversely affect the stability of production from our reserves and reduce our coal royalty revenues. Our lessees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that may limit their ability to produce and sell coal from our properties. Our lessees may incur substantial costs and liabilities under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety and endangered species laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our lessees’ operations. Our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from their operations. If our lessees are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, their mining operations and, as a result, our coal royalty revenues could be adversely affected. New environmental legislation, new regulations and new interpretations of existing environmental laws, including regulations governing permitting requirements and the protection of endangered species, could further regulate or tax the coal industry and may also require our lessees to change their operations significantly to incur increased costs or to obtain new or different permits, any of which could decrease our coal royalty revenues. A lessee may incorrectly report royalty revenues, which might not be identified by our lessee audit process or our mine inspection process or, if identified, might be identified in a subsequent period. We depend on our lessees to correctly report production and royalty revenues on a monthly basis. Our regular lessee audits and mine inspections may not discover any irregularities in these reports or, if we do discover errors, we might not identify them in the reporting period in which they occurred. Any undiscovered reporting errors could result in a loss of coal royalty revenues and errors identified in subsequent periods could lead to accounting disputes as well as disputes with our lessees. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 