Item 1A. Risk Factors Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements set forth in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC. Those factors include the following: 1. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We underwrite property and casualty reinsurance and have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, including terrorism and, consequently, we expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently difficult to predict. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, catastrophes are an inherent risk of our business and a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business, and our financial condition and results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and, although we seek to limit our overall exposure to risk by limiting the amount of reinsurance we write by geographic zone, we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. 2. If the loss limitation methods and pricing models we employ are not effective, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters. We seek to limit our overall exposure to risk by limiting the amount of reinsurance we write by geographic zone, peril and type of program or contract. Our risk management practices include the use of contract terms, diversification criteria, probability analysis and analysis of comparable historical loss experience. We estimate the impact of certain catastrophic events using catastrophe modeling software and contract information to evaluate our exposure to losses from individual contracts and in the aggregate. For example, the majority of the natural peril catastrophe reinsurance we write relates to exposures within the United States, Europe and Japan. Accordingly, we monitor our exposure to events that affect these regions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes in the United States, flood and wind in Europe and typhoons and earthquakes in Japan. Underwriting requires significant judgment, involving assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. We take an active role in the evaluation of commercial catastrophe exposure models, which form the basis for our own proprietary pricing models. These computer-based loss modeling systems utilize direct exposure information obtained from our clients and independent data to assess each client's potential for catastrophe losses. We believe that modeling is an important part of the underwriting process for catastrophe exposure pricing. However, these models depend on the quality of the information obtained from our clients and the independent data we obtain from third parties and may prove inadequate for determining the pricing for certain catastrophe exposures. Many of our reinsurance contracts do not contain an aggregate loss limit or a loss ratio limit, which means that there is no contractual limit to the amount of losses that we may be required to pay pursuant to such reinsurance contracts. However, substantially all of our property reinsurance contracts with natural catastrophe exposure have occurrence limits that limit our exposure. In addition, substantially all of our high layer property, casualty and marine excess-of-loss contracts also contain aggregate loss limits, with limited reinstatements of an occurrence limit, which restore the original limit under the contract after the limit has been depleted by losses incurred on that treaty. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may be difficult to enforce in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. - 22 - 3. If we are required to increase our liabilities for losses and LAE, our operating results may be adversely affected. We establish liabilities for losses and LAE that we are or will be liable to pay for reinsured claims for events that have occurred on or before the balance sheet date. At any time, these liabilities may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and LAE. To the extent these liabilities are determined to be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, we will have to increase these liabilities and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with laws, regulations and U.S. GAAP, we do not establish liabilities until an event occurs which may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established based upon estimates of the total losses incurred by the ceding companies and an estimate of the portion of such loss we have reinsured. The liabilities established on our consolidated balance sheet do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are estimates of the expected cost of the ultimate settlement of losses. We do not separately evaluate each of the individual insurance or reinsurance contracts assumed under our treaties and we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. All of our liability estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections at a given time, facts and circumstances known at that time and estimates of trends in loss severity and other variable factors, including new concepts of liability and general economic conditions. Changes in these trends or other variable factors could result in claims in excess of the liabilities that we have established. Unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. These additional losses could arise from changes in the legal environment, prior catastrophic events, extraordinary events affecting our clients such as reorganizations and liquidations or changes in general economic conditions. 4. Losses from operations may deplete our capital base and create a need to obtain additional capital that may not be readily available in the capital markets or only be available on unfavorable terms. Losses from operations, including severe catastrophic events, could cause a material decline in our shareholders’ equity. We are dependent on our financial strength and ratings, as evaluated by independent rating agencies, to underwrite reinsurance. A material decline in our existing capital below a level necessary to maintain our ratings would require that we raise additional capital through financings or the capital markets. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 5. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our ability to write new business. A.M. Best is generally considered to be the significant rating agency with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Ratings are used by ceding companies and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. In addition, a ceding company's own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, a downgrade of our rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of ours that has a higher insurance rating. A.M. Best has assigned a financial strength rating of "A" (Excellent) to our operating subsidiaries. This rating indicates A.M. Best's opinion that a company has an excellent ability to meet its ongoing obligations to policyholders. This rating is subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best. If A.M. Best revises the rating standard associated with our current rating, our rating may be downgraded or we may need to raise additional capital to maintain our rating. It is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow a ceding company to cancel the contract or require us to collateralize all or part of our obligation if our financial strength rating was downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise a cancellation right would depend on, among other factors, the reason for such downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of reinsurance coverage. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which a cancellation right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect any such cancellations would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be materially adverse. - 23 - We may from time to time collateralize our obligations under our various reinsurance contracts by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to us under the reinsurance contract. We have entered into contracts with several ceding companies that require us to provide varying levels of collateral for our obligations under various circumstances, including when our obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated amounts. These amounts may vary depending on our rating from A.M. Best or other rating agencies. The amount of collateral we are required to provide typically represents a portion of the obligations we may owe the ceding company, often including estimates of unpaid losses made by the ceding company. Since we may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company’s estimate, we may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds our estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. 6. We are dependent on the business provided to us by reinsurance brokers and we may be exposed to liability for brokers' failure to make payments to clients for their claims. We market substantially all of our reinsurance products through reinsurance brokers. The reinsurance brokerage industry generally, and our sources of business specifically, are concentrated. The loss of business relationships with any of our top five brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owing in respect of claims under our contracts to reinsurance brokers, for payment over to the ceding companies. In the event that a broker fails to make such a payment, we may remain liable to the ceding company for the deficiency. Conversely, in most jurisdictions, when premiums for such contracts are paid to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, such premiums will be deemed to have been paid and the ceding company will no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with our brokers during the payment process. 7. The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies' decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently reinsurance premium rates. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity have permitted favorable pricing. We can expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry's profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what management believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), acts of terrorism, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and income and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. We cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Unfavorable market conditions may affect our ability to write reinsurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, our ability to transact reinsurance business would be significantly and adversely affected. 8. Increased competition could adversely affect our profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete based upon security, service and price with reinsurers worldwide, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Some of our competitors are large financial institutions that have reinsurance segments, while others are specialty reinsurance companies. Financial institutions have also created alternative capital market products that compete with reinsurance products, such as reinsurance securitization. Competition in the types of reinsurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including premium charges and other terms and conditions offered, services provided, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment, claims experience, perceived financial strength and experience and reputation of the reinsurer in the line of reinsurance to be underwritten. Competition within the reinsurance industry to attract senior management, particularly in Bermuda, has increased following the establishment of a number of new, well-capitalized Bermuda reinsurers following significant catastrophe losses in 2005 and 2004. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to retain senior management and to continue to attract talented new personnel. - 24 - Traditional as well as new capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds and various derivatives such as swaps) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as property catastrophe. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in our industry. 9. Retrocessional reinsurance may become unavailable on acceptable terms. In order to limit the effect on our financial condition of large and multiple losses, we may buy retrocessional reinsurance, which is reinsurance for our own account. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. If we are unable or unwilling to obtain retrocessional reinsurance, our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by catastrophic losses. Elimination of all or portions of our retrocessional coverage could subject us to increased, and possibly material, exposure or could cause us to underwrite less business. Our retrocessions subject us to credit risk because the ceding of risk to retrocessionaires does not relieve a reinsurer of its liability to the ceding companies. Therefore, a retrocessionaire’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance contract with us could have a material adverse effect on us. 10. Our invested assets are subject to market volatility and interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuation. Our principal invested assets are fixed maturities, which are subject to the risk of potential decline in fair value from changes in interest rates. Depending on our classification of our investments as available-for-sale, trading or other invested assets, changes in the fair value of our securities are reflected in either our consolidated balance sheet or consolidated statement of operations. Our investment portfolio is also subject to credit risk resulting from adverse changes in the issuer's ability to repay the debt. These risks could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk is our obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. The possibility exists that we may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately settle claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To the extent we do not seek to hedge our foreign currency risk or hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rate could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. 11. The imposition of U.S. corporate income tax on Platinum Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that Platinum Holdings, Platinum Bermuda, Platinum UK Services Company Limited, Platinum UK, and Platinum Regency each operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. corporate income tax because they are not engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. has not been established by the tax authorities, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service may successfully assert that any of these companies is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., or, if applicable, engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. through a permanent establishment. If any of these companies were characterized as being so engaged, such company would be subject to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on its income that is effectively connected ("ECI") with its U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on its dividend equivalent amount (generally ECI with certain adjustments) deemed withdrawn from the U.S. Any such tax could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 12. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Consequently, if our Bermuda tax exemption is not extended past March 28, 2016, we may be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. 13. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The term “U.S. Person” means: (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or organized under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust, or the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. - 25 - If Platinum Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g., through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. Although there is an exception for purposes of the PFIC rules for non-U.S. insurance companies predominantly engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business, there are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company and there is no other guidance to explain what constitutes the “active conduct of an insurance business for U.S. federal income tax purposes.” New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We believe we should not be characterized as a PFIC, however, we cannot assure you that we will not be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. 14. An IRS Revenue Ruling could be applied to recharacterize the insurance arrangements between Platinum US and Platinum Bermuda. IRS Revenue Ruling 2005-40 sets forth guidelines for when there is adequate “risk distribution” for primary insurance arrangements to constitute insurance for U.S. federal tax purposes. The Revenue Ruling took the position that a transaction between an insurer and an insured did not provide risk distribution, and thus was not insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes, when the insured provided over 90% of the insurer’s premiums for the year. Revenue Ruling 2005-40 does not address what constitutes risk distribution in the context of reinsurance (which includes retrocession). We do not believe the IRS would attempt to apply such a rule to quota share reinsurance transactions in which the ceding company cedes a significant number of unrelated risks to the reinsurer, even if the ceding company provided substantially all of the reinsurer’s business, nor do we believe the IRS would be successful if it took such a position. However, if the IRS were to successfully assert that the principles enunciated in Revenue Ruling 2005-40 apply to reinsurance (including retrocession) and find that under those principles Platinum Bermuda does not have adequate risk distribution and that Platinum Bermuda’s transactions were not considered insurance, Platinum Holdings and Platinum Bermuda could be characterized as passive foreign investment companies and this could have a negative effect on our book value and potentially on the value of our shares. 15. Under certain circumstances, you may be required to pay taxes on your pro rata share of the related person insurance income of Platinum Bermuda. If (i) U.S. Persons are treated as owning 25% or more of our shares, (ii) the related person insurance income ("RPII") of Platinum Bermuda were to equal or exceed 20% of the gross insurance income of Platinum Bermuda in any taxable year, and (iii) direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Platinum Bermuda, a U.S. Person who owns our shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder's pro rata share of the RPII of Platinum Bermuda for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. Persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. RPII generally represents premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of our shares or any person related to such holder. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by Platinum Bermuda will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of the business of Platinum Bermuda and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Platinum Bermuda. Some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII in any period may be beyond the control of Platinum Bermuda. Although we expect that either (i) the gross RPII of Platinum Bermuda will not exceed 20% of its gross insurance income for the taxable year or (ii) direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) will not own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares for the foreseeable future, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. 16. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on all or a portion of their gains, if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Platinum Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in the form of final regulations. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these proposed regulations will be adopted in their present form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. - 26 - 17. The regulatory system under which we operate and potential changes thereto could significantly and adversely affect our business. The business of reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. In the United States and in the United Kingdom licensed reinsurers are highly regulated and must comply with financial supervision standards comparable to those governing primary insurers. For additional discussion of the regulatory requirements to which Platinum Holdings and its subsidiaries are subject, see Item 1 – “Business – Regulation”. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our financial results and operations. In addition, these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to write new business or, as indicated above, distribute funds to Platinum Holdings. In recent years, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws that may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. Platinum Bermuda is not registered or licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda. Platinum Bermuda conducts its business solely through its offices in Bermuda and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not conduct any insurance activities, outside Bermuda. Although Platinum Bermuda does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, inquiries into or challenges to Platinum Bermuda's insurance activities may still be raised in the future. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. federal and various state jurisdictions. In the past, there have been congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. If Platinum Bermuda were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than those applicable to it in Bermuda, Platinum Bermuda might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 18. Platinum Holdings is a holding company and, consequently, its cash flow is dependent on dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings is a holding company that conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. All operations are conducted by its wholly owned operating subsidiaries, Platinum Bermuda and Platinum US. As a holding company, Platinum Holdings' cash flow consists primarily of dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings depends on such payments for general corporate purposes and to meet its obligations, including capital management activities and the payment of any dividends to its preferred and common shareholders. Additionally, under the Companies Act, Platinum Holdings may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or after the payment would be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. 19. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key executives or by an inability to retain or replace qualified senior management. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of our key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our business plans and strategies or cause us to lose clients or other key business contacts. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies with respect to our employees. 20. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Bermuda company and certain of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets, officers and directors are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. at any one time. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. - 27 - 21. There are limitations on the ownership, transfer and voting rights of our common shares. Under our Bye-laws, our directors are required to decline to register any transfer of common shares that would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting shares, or in the case of our two former principal shareholders beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of such shares or of the total combined value of our issued shares. Similar restrictions apply to our ability to issue or repurchase shares. The directors also may, in their discretion, decline to register the transfer of any shares if they have reason to believe (1) that the transfer may lead to adverse tax or regulatory consequences in any jurisdiction or (2) that the transfer would violate the registration requirements of the U.S. federal securities laws or of any other jurisdiction. These restrictions would apply to a transfer of shares even if the transfer has been executed on the NYSE. A transferor of common shares will be deemed to own those shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of those common shares has been registered on our register of shareholders. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of common shares as necessary to give effect to the transfer issuance and repurchase restrictions referred to above, and may decline to effect any transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our Bye-laws generally provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding voting shares, will have the voting rights attached to our issued shares reduced so that it may not exercise 10% or more of such total voting rights. Because of the attribution provisions of the Code, and the rules of the SEC regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds 10% or more of our common shares. Further, the directors have the authority to require from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder's voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the directors (or their designees) discretion to disregard all votes attached to that shareholder's common shares. The insurance law of Maryland prevents any person from acquiring control of us or of Platinum US unless that person has filed a notification with specified information with the Maryland Insurance Commissioner and has obtained the Commissioner’s prior approval. Under the Maryland statute, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of Platinum Holdings without the prior approval of the Maryland Insurance Commissioner will be in violation of this law and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the Maryland Insurance Commissioner or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the Maryland Insurance Commissioner. In addition, many U.S. state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Platinum Holdings may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. Common shares may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda. In addition, sales of common shares to persons resident in Bermuda for Bermuda exchange control purposes may require the prior approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Consent under the Exchange Control Act 1972 (and its related regulations) has been obtained from the Bermuda Monetary Authority for the issue and transfer of the common shares between non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, provided our shares remain listed on an appointed stock exchange, which includes the NYSE. In giving such consent, neither the Bermuda Monetary Authority nor the Registrar of Companies accepts any responsibility for the financial soundness of any proposal or for the correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed herein or therein. The foregoing provisions of our Bye-laws and legal restrictions will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. 22. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. A U.S. Person that is a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation (defined as a U.S. Person who owns or is treated as owning at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation) that is a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC") for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC's taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if “10% U.S. Shareholders” own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., “constructively”)) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of that foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of that foreign corporation. - 28 - For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts (other than certain insurance or reinsurance related to same country risks written by certain insurance companies not applicable here) exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. We believe that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership and, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power, no U.S. Person should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of our shares. However, the IRS could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions in our organizational documents. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder. 23. The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD's report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004, September 2006 and October 2007, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. 24. The current investigations into finite risk reinsurance products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In November and December 2004, we received subpoenas from the SEC and the Office of the Attorney General for the State of New York for documents and information relating to certain finite risk reinsurance products. We have fully cooperated in responding to all such requests. Other reinsurance companies have reported receiving similar subpoenas and requests. We are unable to predict the direction these investigations will take and the impact, if any, they may have on our business. On June 14, 2005, we received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to our finite risk reinsurance products. We have been informed that other companies in the industry have received similar subpoenas. We have fully cooperated in responding to this request. We have not had any contact with offices of the SEC, the New York Attorney General or the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York with respect to these investigations since November 2005, but the investigations have not been closed. We believe these investigations have significantly diminished the demand for finite risk products and we expect that this diminished demand will continue. - 29 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 