Item 1A. Risk Factors The Corporation must deal with several risk factors in its normal course of business. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Corporation or that are currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows of the Corporation could be materially affected. Page 11 Table of Contents Reinsurance The Corporation’s insurance segments seek to limit their exposure that may arise from catastrophes or other events that cause unfavorable underwriting results by reinsuring certain levels of risk in various areas of exposure with other insurance enterprises or reinsurers. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions and may vary significantly. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase the segment’s exposure to risk of loss and could materially affect the operations of the insurance segments, particularly the Property and Casualty Insurance segment. In addition, the Corporation, through its insurance segments, is subject to credit risk with respect to reinsurers. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve any of the insurance segments from their obligations to policyholders. In the event that all or any of the reinsuring companies might be unable to meet their obligations under existing reinsurance agreements, the insurance segments would be liable for such defaulted amounts. The insurance segments mitigate the credit risk related to reinsurers by reinsuring its business only with reinsurers considered financially sound. Dependence on Large Contracts The Health Insurance segments participate in government contracts that generate a significant amount of the Corporation’s consolidated premiums earned, net as follows: Through TSI, the Corporation participates in the government’s Healthcare Reform to provide health coverage to medically indigent citizens in Puerto Rico. As of December 31, 2005 TSI has contracts to serve three of the eight geographical areas in which the medically indigent population was divided for purposes of the Healthcare Reform. The contract for each geographical area is subject to termination in the event of non-compliance by the insurance company not corrected or cured to the satisfaction of the government entity overseeing the Reform, or in the event that the government determines that there is an insufficiency of funds to finance the Reform. This last event will require prior written notice of at least ninety days. For the three year period ended December 31, 2005 total premiums generated from the Reform contracts represent 36.6%, 37.1% and 37.5%, respectively, of the Corporation’s consolidated total premiums. The loss of any or all of TSI’s three Reform contracts would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s operating results. This could include the downsizing of certain personnel, the cancellation of lease agreements of certain premises and of certain contracts, and severance payments, among others. Also, this would result in a significant decrease in TSI’s volume of premiums, claims and operating expenses. TSI is a qualified contractor to provide health insurance coverage to federal government employees within Puerto Rico. Premiums generated under this contract represent 8.1%, 8.3% and 8.2% of the Corporation’s consolidated total premiums for the three year period ended December 31, 2005. The contract with the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is subject to termination in the event of noncompliance not corrected to the satisfaction of the OPM. Since the operations of the Federal Employees’ Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) do not result in any excess or deficiency of revenue or expense, the loss of this contract does not have a significant effect in the operating results of the Corporation. However, the volume of premiums and claims and operating expenses of the segment would experience a significant decrease. In addition the segment would need to adjust its operations since the FEHBP would no longer participate in its fixed costs. Additional details on the operations and accounting of the FEHBP are included in note 9 to the audited consolidated financial statements. TSI has a contract with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to offer coordinated care plans to Medicare beneficiaries, as described in a plan benefit package bid submission proposal as approved by CMS. TSI began offering Medicare Advantage policies during 2005. Premiums generated from this business during the year 2005 Page 12 Table of Contents amounted to $34.2 million, or 2.5% of the Corporation’s consolidated total premiums. As part of this contract TSI must comply with regulations established by CMS for the provision of benefits, enrollment requirements, beneficiary protection, provider protection, quality improvement program, compliance plan, program integrity, reporting requirements and marketing, among others. The contract provides for immediate termination by CMS in the event TSI is involved in false, fraudulent or abusive activities affecting the Medicare program. CMS and TSI may cancel the contract for other reasons specified in the contract; contract cancellation must be notified 90 days before the intended cancellation date. CMS and TSI have the right to appeal cancellations however; TSI cannot appeal cancellations due to its involvement in false, fraudulent or abusive activities. As of December 31, 2005, the loss of this contract would not have a material adverse effect in the Corporation’s operating results. However, TSI expects to increase its participation in the Medicare Advantage business; should this business grow as expected the loss of the contract could have a material adverse effect in the Corporation’s financial statements. License Agreement with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association TSM and TSI are a party to license agreements with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association that entitle us to the exclusive use of the Blue Shield name and mark in our geographic territories. The termination of these license agreements or changes in the terms and conditions of these license agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We use the Blue Shield name and mark as an identifier for our products and services under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. Our license agreements with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the Blue Shield name and mark. Failure to comply with any of these requirements and restrictions could result in a termination of the license agreements. The standards under the license agreements may be modified in certain instances by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association. For example, from time to time there have been proposals considered by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association to modify the terms of the license agreements to restrict various potential business activities of licensees. These proposals have included, among other things, a limitation on the ability of a licensee to make its provider networks available to insurance carriers or other entities not holding a Blue Cross or Blue Shield license. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreements are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Upon the occurrence of an event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in one or more of our geographic territories. Furthermore, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association would be free to issue a license to use the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks in these states to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, a change of control or violation of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. We believe that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield names and marks are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. Accordingly, termination of the license agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Geographical Concentration A substantial majority of the Corporation’s business activity is with insureds located throughout Puerto Rico, and as such, the Corporation is subject to the risks associated with the Puerto Rico economy. If economic conditions in Puerto Page 13 Table of Contents Rico deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect the Corporation’s business, financial position and results of operations. Litigation The Corporation is a defendant in various lawsuits, some of which involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts and the outcome of which is unpredictable. The Corporation intends to defend these suits vigorously. A description of the legal proceeding in which the Corporation in which the Corporation is involved is included in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the nature of the business, the Corporation may be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to its business operations, including the design, management and offering of products and services, among others. Competition The insurance industry in Puerto Rico is very competitive. If the insurance subsidiaries are unable to compete effectively while appropriately pricing the business subscribed, the Corporation’s business and financial condition could be materially affected. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including premiums charges, services provided, speed of claim payments and reputation. Regulations The Corporation is subject to general business regulations and laws (at the local and Federal level) and the insurance subsidiaries are also subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico. General business regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, among others. The regulations imposed by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, influence how the insurance subsidiaries conduct business and place limitations on investments and dividends. The regulatory powers of the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico are designed to protect policyholders, not stockholders. While we cannot predict the terms of future regulation, the enactment of new legislation could affect the cost or demand of insurance policies and may limit the segments’ ability to obtain rate increases in those cases where rates are regulated or expose the Corporation to expanded liability. In addition, the Corporation may incur in additional operating expenses in order to comply with new legislation and may be required to revise the way in which it conducts business. The Corporation cannot assure that future regulatory action by the Commissioner of Insurance or other governmental agencies will not have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of its business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Information Systems The Corporation’s business depends significantly on effective information systems, and we have many different information systems for our various businesses. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, and changing customer preferences. In addition, the Corporation may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties’ failure to perform adequately. As a result of the acquisition of GA Life, the Corporation has acquired an additional system. The Corporation’s failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or the failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Acquisitions In 2006 the Corporation acquired 100% of the common stock of GA Life and plans to merge the operations of SVTS with those of the acquired company. In addition, the Corporation may acquire additional companies if consistent with its strategic plan for growth. Acquisitions may create risks such as the following: • Disruption of on-going business operations, distraction of management, diversion of resources and difficulty in maintaining current business standards, controls and procedures. • Difficulty in integrating information technology of acquired entity and unanticipated expenses related to such integration. Page 14 Table of Contents • Difficulty in the integration of the new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resources and other administrative systems and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented. • Difficulty in the implementation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for filers with the Securities and Exchange Commission at companies that prior to acquisition lacked such controls, policies and procedures. • Potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company or under-estimating know liabilities. • Failure of acquired business to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow. • Incurrence of additional debt related to future acquisitions. • Competition with other entities, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved Commission staff comments that remain unresolved at the time of filing. 