Item 1A. Risk Factors We must deal with several risk factors during the normal course of business. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Page 28 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Capital Stock Certain of our current and former providers may bring materially dilutive claims against us. Beginning with our founding in 1959 and until 1994, we encouraged, and at times required, the doctors and dentists that comprised our provider network to acquire our shares. Between approximately 1985 and 1994, our predecessor managed care subsidiary, Seguros de Servicios de Salud de Puerto Rico, Inc. (“SSS”) generally entered into an agreement with each new physician or dentist who joined our provider network to sell the provider shares of SSS at a future date (each agreement, a “share acquisition agreement”). These share acquisition agreements were necessary because there were not enough authorized shares of SSS available during this period and afterwards for issuance to all new providers. Each share acquisition agreement committed SSS to sell, and each new provider to purchase, five $40-par-value shares of SSS at $40 per share after SSS had increased its authorized share capital in compliance with the Puerto Rico Insurance Code and was in a position to issue new shares. Despite repeated efforts in the 1990s, SSS was not successful in obtaining shareholder approval to increase its share capital, other than in connection with the Corporation’s reorganization in 1999, when SSS was merged into a newly-formed entity having authorized capital of 25,000 $40-par-value shares, or twice the number of authorized shares of SSS. SSS’s shareholders did not, however, authorize the issuance of the newly formed entity’s shares to providers or any other third party. In addition, subsequent to the reorganization, our shareholders did not approve attempts to increase our share capital in 2002 and 2003. Notwithstanding the fact that TSS and its predecessor, SSS, were never in a position to issue new shares to providers as contemplated by the share acquisition agreements because shareholder approval for such issuance was never obtained, and the fact that SSS on several occasions in the 1990s offered providers the opportunity to purchase shares of its treasury stock and such offers were accepted by very few providers, providers who entered into share acquisition agreements may claim that the share acquisition agreements entitled them to acquire our or TSS’s shares at a subscription price equivalent to that provided for in the share acquisition agreements. SSS entered into share acquisition agreements with approximately 3,000 providers, the substantial majority of whom never came to own shares of SSS. Such share acquisition agreements provide for the purchase and sale of approximately 15,000 shares of SSS. If we or TSS were required to issue a significant number of shares in respect of these agreements, the interest of our existing shareholders would be substantially diluted. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, only one judicial claim to enforce any of these agreements has been brought against the Company. The case was settled by the parties and, on August 2013, dismissed by the court with prejudice. Additionally, we have received inquiries with respect to fewer than 700 shares under share acquisition agreements. The share numbers set forth in this paragraph reflect the number of SSS shares provided for in the share acquisition agreements. Those agreements do not include anti-dilution protections and we do not believe that the amounts of any claims under the agreements with SSS should be multiplied to reflect the 3,000-for-one stock split effected by us on May 1, 2007. We cannot provide assurances, however, that claimants will not successfully seek to increase the size of their claims by reference to the stock split. We have been advised by our counsel that, on the basis of a reasoned analysis, while the matter is not free from doubt and there are no applicable controlling precedents, we should prevail in any litigation of these claims because, among other defenses, the condition precedent to SSS’s obligations under the share acquisition agreements never occurred, and any obligation it may, or we may be deemed to, have had under the share acquisition agreements should be understood to have expired prior to our corporate reorganization, which took effect in 1999, although the share acquisition agreements do not expressly provide for any expiration. We believe that we should prevail in any litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation, including with respect to the magnitude of any claims that may be asserted by any plaintiff, and the interests of our shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that claims under the share acquisition agreements are successful. Heirs of certain of our former shareholders may bring materially dilutive claims against us. For much of our history, we and our predecessor entity have restricted the ownership or transferability of our shares, including by reserving to us or our predecessor a right of first refusal with respect to share transfers and by limiting ownership of such shares to physicians and dentists. In addition, we and our predecessor, consistent with the requirements of our and our predecessor’s bylaws, have sought to repurchase shares of deceased shareholders at the amount originally paid for such shares by those shareholders. Nonetheless, former shareholders’ heirs who were not eligible to own or be transferred shares because they were not physicians or dentists at the time of their purported inheritance (“non-medical heirs”), may claim an entitlement to our shares or to damages with respect to the repurchased shares notwithstanding applicable transfer and ownership restrictions. Our records indicate that there may be as many as approximately 450 former shareholders whose non-medical heirs may claim to have inherited up to 10,500,000 shares after giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are defending six judicial claims by non-medical heirs of former shareholders whose shares were repurchased upon their death seeking the return of or compensation for a total of 92 shares (prior to giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split). See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings – Claims by Heirs of Former Shareholders”. In addition, we have received inquiries from non-medical heirs with respect to fewer than 700 shares (or 2,100,000 shares after giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split). Page 29 Table of Contents We believe that we should prevail in litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation regarding these non-medical heirs. The interests of our existing shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that any such claims are successful. The dual class structure may not successfully protect against significant dilution of your shares of Class B common stock. We designed our dual class structure of capital stock to offset the potential impact on the value of our Class B common stock attributable to any issuance of shares of common stock for less than market value in respect of a successful claim against us under any share acquisition agreement or by a non-medical heir. We believe that this mechanism will effectively protect investors in our shares of Class B common stock against any potential dilution attributable to the issuance of any shares in respect of such claims at below market prices. We cannot, however, provide any assurances that this mechanism will be effective under all circumstances. While we expect to prevail against any such claims brought against us and, to the extent that we do not prevail, would expect to issue Class A common stock in respect of any such claim, there can be no assurance that the claimants in any such lawsuit will not seek to acquire Class B common stock. The issuance of a significant number of shares of Class B common stock, if followed by a material further issuance of shares of common stock to separate claimants could impair the effectiveness of the anti-dilution protections of the Class B common stock. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that the anti-dilution protections afforded our Class B common stock will not be challenged by share acquisition providers and/or non-medical heir claimants to the extent that these protections limit the percentage ownership of us that may be acquired by such claimants. We believe that such a challenge should not prevail, but cannot provide any assurances of the outcome. In the event that claimants acquire shares of our managed care subsidiary, TSS, at less than fair value, we will not be able to prevent dilution of the value of the Class B shareholders’ ownership interest in us to the extent that the net value received by such claimants exceeds the value of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. Finally, the anti-dilution protection afforded by the dual class structure may cease to be of further effect at any time because all remaining shares of Class A common stock may, at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted into shares of Class B common stock. On May 17, 2013, the Company converted 6,660,423 shares of Class A common stock to Class B common stock. Concurrently with the conversion, 6,210,423 of such converted shares were sold in a registered secondary public offering. Future sales of our Class B common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may have an adverse impact on its market price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to decline. Either of these limits our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. As of December 31, 2013 there were 25,091,277 shares of Class B common stock and 2,377,689 shares of Class A common stock. Our Class A common stock is no longer subject to contractual lockup; thus, such shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act by persons other than our ‘‘affiliates’’ within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, although such shares will continue not to be listed on the NYSE and will not be fungible with our listed shares of Class B common stock. All or any portion of our shares of Class A common stock may at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted to shares of Class B common stock. Page 30 Table of Contents The price of our Class B stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, including those discussed under “Risk Factors” herein, many of which are beyond our control. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our Class B common stock. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our Class B common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our inability to contain managed care costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. A substantial portion of our managed care revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by contracts with our commercial customers or CMS (for our Medicare Advantage and PDP plans), all of which are typically renewable on an annual basis. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for member acuity in the case of the Medicare Advantage products, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under these contracts during the then-current terms. As a result, our profitability in any year depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of managed care services through underwriting criteria, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Also, we have in the past and may in the future enter into new lines of business in which it may be difficult to estimate anticipated costs. Numerous factors affecting the cost of managed care, including changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies such as genetic laboratory screening for diseases including breast cancer, electronic recordkeeping, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment including the implementation of the final HIPAA omnibus rule and ACA, may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage managed care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis may adversely affect our business and profitability. In addition to the challenge of managing managed care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may move to a competitor at policy renewal to obtain more favorable premiums. Also, the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance may disapprove proposed rate increases in the individual and small business markets. Future Medicare premium rate levels may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain medical expense or other budgetary constraints. Changes in the Medicare Advantage program, including with respect to funding, may lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, or reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The property and casualty insurance industry is under soft market conditions for commercial lines and consequently is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. Competitors may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. The competitive environment in which we operate is also impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. Page 31 Table of Contents Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current provider agreements and to enter into other appropriate agreements. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other managed care providers. We face heavy competition from other managed care plans to enter into contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers in our provider networks. Consolidation in our industry, both on the provider side and on the managed care side, only exacerbates this competition. In recent years some groups of providers have been pressing for legislation that would allow them to collectively negotiate certain contract terms through cooperatives. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, no such legislation has been passed by the local Legislature. However, on January 3, 2013, the Public Corporation for the Supervision and Insurance of Cooperatives in Puerto Rico (“COSSEC”, by its Spanish acronym), a governmental entity, enacted rule No. 8320 to allow providers to collectively negotiate service fees through cooperatives with insurance companies and healthcare organizations on a voluntary basis. On February 10, 2014, we were notified that the Officer of the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico (“OCS”, by its Spanish acronym) requested a legal opinion from the Department of Justice on the authority of COSSEC to issue rule No. 8320, as the Commissioner believes the OCS is the governmental entity responsible for regulating the matters contemplated under rule No. 8320. While compliance with rule No. 8320 is currently voluntary, if the Department of Justice disagrees with OCS’s position or if COSSEC independently decides that it has the authority to regulate in this space notwithstanding the Department of Justice’s legal opinion, it may become difficult for us to not comply with the rule. If we were to comply with such rule, we expect that maintaining or securing new cost-effective managed care provider contracts would become more difficult, which could result in a loss in membership or higher medical costs and could adversely affect our business. A reduction in the enrollment in our managed care programs could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. A reduction in the number of enrollees in our managed care programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; suspension or loss of our ability to enroll new customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our exit from a specific market; reductions in workforce by existing customers; negative publicity and news coverage; failure to maintain the BCBS license; and any general economic downturn that results in business failures. We are dependent on a small number of government contracts to generate a significant amount of the revenues of our managed care business. Our managed care business participates in government contracts that generate a significant amount of our consolidated operating revenues, as follows: • Medicare: We provide services through our Medicare Advantage products pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS. These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year. Each of our contracts with CMS is cancellable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully re-bid or compete for any of these contracts, or if the process for bidding materially changes or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business could be materially impaired. During each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, contracts with CMS represented 47.0%, 47.6% and 43.6% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively, and 52.5%, 5.0% and 12.5% of our consolidated operating income, respectively. • Commercial: Our managed care subsidiary is a qualified contractor to provide managed care coverage to federal government employees within Puerto Rico. Such coverage is provided pursuant to a contract with the OPM that is subject to termination in the event of noncompliance not corrected to the satisfaction of the OPM. During each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012and 2011 premiums generated under this contract represented 7.0%, 6.4% and 6.7% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively. The operating income generated under this contract represented 2.6%, 1.6% and 1.3% of our consolidated operating income during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Page 32 Table of Contents • Medicaid: We participate in the government of Puerto Rico Health Reform Program (similar to Medicaid) to provide health coverage to medically indigent citizens in Puerto Rico. Since we obtained our first contract in 1995, we were the sole provider for two to three regions each year, until September 30, 2010 when our contracts with the government of Puerto Rico expired by their own terms. On October 17, 2011, TSS entered into a new contract with the government of Puerto Rico to resume the administration of the physical health component of this program in five designated service regions in Puerto Rico, effective November 1, 2011. On July 1, 2013, TSS amended its agreement with the government of Puerto Rico and extended for a 12-month period the administration of the provision of the health component of the program in the five designated service regions. The amended contract also transferred the administration of the three remaining service regions to TSS on October 1, 2013. The amended contract expires on June 30, 2014. TSS receives a monthly per-member, per-month administrative fee for its services and does not bear the insurance risk of the program. Under the terms of the contract, TSS is a third party administrator responsible for the provision of administrative services to subscribers in all service regions. This program currently services approximately 1,420,000 members. The administrative services to be provided in the Service Regions include case, disease and utilization management, network management and credentialing, enrollment and enrollee services and claims administration, among others. TSS, however, is not financially responsible or otherwise at risk for the provision of services to subscribers in the Service Regions. On February 5, 2014 the government of Puerto Rico issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) process for the Medicaid business and announced its intention to convert the current program to a managed care organization model. Also, selected contractors will be at risk for the provision of the physical and behavioral health components of the program. We are currently evaluating the requirements of this RFP and have not concluded whether or not we will participate in the competitive bid process to retain the Medicaid business. Should we decide to participate in the bid process, there is no guarantee that we will be selected to continue providing services under the managed care organization model. If we are selected, we may not retain the right to service a particular geographical area in which we currently operate after the expiration of our current contract. If we are selected as a provider under the managed care organization model, we will be at risk for the cost of services provided to members which can be unpredictable, thus we cannot assure that any new contract for this program will be profitable, or that any such contract will be as profitable to TSS as our current administrative services contract. Our current contract for the Medicaid business is subject to termination in the event of any non-compliance by TSS that is not corrected or cured to the satisfaction of ASES the government entity overseeing this program, or on 90 days’ prior written notice in the event that ASES determines that there is an insufficiency of funds to finance the program. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, operating income generated under this contract represented 34.3%, 46.0% and 7.4% of our consolidated operating income, respectively. If any of these contracts is terminated for any reason, including by reason of any noncompliance by us, or not renewed or replaced by a comparable contract, our consolidated premiums and profitability earned could be materially adversely affected. See “—Risks Relating to the Regulation of our Industry—As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be exposed to criminal sanctions and significant civil penalties, and our Medicare Advantage contracts may be terminated or our operations may be required to change in a manner that has a material impact on our business” and “—Risks Relating to the Regulation of our Industry— If we fail to comply with our corrective action plans with CMS and ASES regarding our provider credentialing and re-credentialing procedures, we may be subject to CMS compliance actions and ASES sanctions, ranging in each case from monetary penalties to contract termination” for more information on the risk of termination of our contracts. In addition, if the liquidity of the Government of Puerto Rico, its agencies, municipalities and public corporations becomes significantly affected by the recent downgrades by the rating agencies or as a result of the inability to raise funding in the market or generate enough revenues, we may face credit losses in our premium and fees receivable from these government related entities, which could be significant. Local government administration may implement a new regional pilot program in an effort to increase access to healthcare through the addition of new beneficiaries of the Health Reform Program, and the creation of a standard basic coverage aimed to promote the use of preventive health services and organ transplant benefits. The Government of Puerto Rico has announced its intention to request CMS approval to begin a pilot program in an effort to bring universal healthcare coverage to Puerto Rico. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the details of this pilot program have not been detailed. This new initiative may impact utilization of health care services and the medical loss ratio. As of the date of this Annual report on Form 10-K, there is uncertainty on how this initiative, if approved by CMS, will be implemented and its likelihood of success. This new initiative may change the conditions of the next bidding and negotiation process. Also, unfavorable changes in the number of beneficiaries under the program design of the standard basic coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 33 Table of Contents A change in our managed care commercial product mix may impact our profitability. Our managed care products that involve greater potential risk, such as fully insured arrangements, generally tend to be more profitable than ASO products and those managed care products where employer groups retain the risk, such as self-funded financial arrangements. There has been a trend in recent years among our Commercial customers of moving from fully-insured plans to ASO, or self-funded arrangements. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 68% of our managed care commercial customers had fully insured arrangements and 32% had ASO arrangements. Unfavorable changes in the relative profitability or customer participation among our various products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported claims would affect our reported financial results. A portion of the claim liabilities recorded by our insurance segments represents an estimate of amounts needed to pay and adjust anticipated claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. These amounts are based on estimates of the ultimate expected cost of claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under each segment’s current facts and circumstances. Accordingly, the ultimate liability may be in excess of or less than the amount provided. We regularly compare prior period liabilities to re-estimate claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development; any difference between these amounts is adjusted in the operations of the period determined. Additional information on how each reportable segment determines its claim liabilities, and the variables considered in the development of this amount, is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations―Critical Accounting Estimates”. Actual experience will likely differ from assumed experience, and to the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a party to license agreements with the BCBSA that entitle us to the exclusive use of the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla. We believe that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield name and mark are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. The termination of these license agreements or changes in their terms and conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our license agreements with the BCBSA contain certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS name and mark. Failure to comply with any of these requirements and restrictions could result in the termination of a license agreement. The standards under a license agreement may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. From time to time there have been proposals considered by the BCBSA to modify the terms of a license agreement to restrict various potential business activities of licensees. To the extent that such amendments to a license agreement are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Upon any event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the BCBS name and marks in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. Accordingly, termination of a license agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 34 Table of Contents In addition, the BCBSA requires us to comply with certain specified levels of risk based capital (“RBC”). RBC is designed to identify weakly capitalized companies by comparing each company’s adjusted surplus to its required surplus (the “RBC ratio”). Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, we may be unable to continue to comply in the future. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation or loss of our BCBS licenses. Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which would allow the BCBSA to “re-establish” a BCBSA presence in the vacated service area with another managed care company. The fee is currently $98.33 per licensed enrollee. If the re-establishment fee were applied to our total BCBS enrollees as of December 31, 2013, we would be assessed approximately $215.1 million by the BCBSA. See “Item 1. Business―Blue Cross and Blue Shield License” for more information. Our ability to manage our exposure to underwriting risks in our life insurance and property and casualty insurance businesses depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance coverage. Reinsurance is the practice of transferring part of an insurance company’s liability and premium under an insurance policy to another insurance company. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. In the year ended December 31, 2013, 37.9%, or $57.6 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 6.3%, or $8.7 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers. In the year ended December 31, 2012, 39.0%, or $63.5 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 6.0%, or $8 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers. The premiums ceded and the availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to changing market conditions and may vary significantly over time. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance coverage will increase our risk of loss. We may be unable to maintain our desired reinsurance coverage or obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or obtain new coverage, it will be difficult for us to manage our underwriting risks and operate our business profitably. It is also possible that the losses we experience on insured risks for which we have obtained reinsurance will exceed the coverage limits of the reinsurance. See “Risks Related to Our Business¾Large scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” If the amount of our reinsurance coverage is insufficient, our insurance losses could increase substantially. If our reinsurers do not pay our claims or do not pay them in a timely manner, we may incur losses. We are subject to loss and credit risk with respect to the reinsurers with whom we deal. In accordance with general industry practices, our property and casualty and life insurance subsidiaries annually purchase reinsurance to lessen the impact of large unforeseen losses and mitigate sudden and unpredictable changes in our net income and shareholders’ equity. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligations to policyholders. In the event that all or any of the reinsurance companies are unable to meet their obligations under existing reinsurance agreements or pay on a timely basis, we will continue to be liable to our policyholders notwithstanding such defaults or delays. If our reinsurers are not capable of fulfilling their financial obligations to us, our insurance losses would increase, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating or our inability to increase our A.M. Best rating could affect our ability to write new business or renew our existing business in our property and casualty segment. Ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor influencing the competitive position of the property and casualty insurance companies in Puerto Rico. In 2013, A.M. Best maintained our property and casualty insurance subsidiary’s rating of “A-” (the fourth highest of A.M. Best’s 16 financial strength ratings) with a stable outlook. A.M. Best ratings represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Financial strength ratings are used by brokers and customers as a means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A.M. Best reviews its ratings periodically and we may not be able to maintain our current ratings in the future. A downgrade of our property and casualty subsidiary’s rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing desirable property business or from renewing our existing business. The lines of business that property and casualty subsidiary writes and the market in which it operates are particularly sensitive to changes in A.M. Best financial strength ratings. Page 35 Table of Contents Significant competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Managed Care The managed care industry in Puerto Rico is very competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively while appropriately pricing the business subscribed, our business and financial condition could be materially affected. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, speed of claim payments and reputation. This competitive environment has produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on the profitability of our managed care company. In addition, the managed care market in Puerto Rico is mature. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Puerto Rico’s population decreased by 2.2% between 2000 and 2010, however the national population rate grew 9.7% during the same period. According to the US Census Bureau, the older population is an important and growing segment of the United States population. In fact, more people were 65 years and older in 2010 than in any previous census. Between 2000 and 2010, the population 65 years and older increased at a faster rate (15.1%) than the total U.S. population. In Puerto Rico, for the same period, the population 65 years and older increased by 27.5 %. As a result, in order to increase our profitability we must increase our membership in the Medicare Advantage program, increase market share in the commercial sector, improve our operating profit margins, make acquisitions or expand geographically. In Puerto Rico, several managed care plans and other entities were awarded contracts for Medicare Advantage or stand-alone Medicare prescription drug plans. These other plans entered that market in 2006 and 2007. We anticipate that they can aggressively market their benefits to our current and our prospective members. Although we believe that we market an attractive offering, there are no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully with these other plans for new members, or that our current members will not choose to terminate their relationship with us and enroll in these other plans. Concentration in our industry also has created an increasingly competitive environment, both for customers and for potential acquisition targets, which may make it difficult for us to grow our business. The parent companies of some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may have difficulty competing with larger managed care companies, which can create downward price pressures on premium rates. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressures faced by us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislation at the federal and local levels also may result in increased competition in our market. While we do not anticipate that any of the current legislative proposals of which we are aware would increase the competition we face, future legislative proposals, if enacted, might do so. Complementary Products The property and casualty insurance market in Puerto Rico is extremely competitive. Due to Puerto Rico’s stagnant economy, there are few new sources of business in this segment. As a result, property and casualty insurance companies compete for the same accounts through pricing, policy terms and quality of services. We also face heavy competition in the life and disability insurance market. We believe these trends will continue. There can be no assurance that these competitive pressures will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a holding company, we are largely dependent on rental payments, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries, although the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us is subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance, including maintenance of minimum levels of capital, as well as covenant restrictions in their indebtedness. We are a holding company whose assets include, among other things, all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. We principally rely on rental income and dividends from our subsidiaries to fund our debt service, dividend payments and operating expenses, although our subsidiaries do not declare dividends every year. We also benefit to a lesser extent from income on our investment portfolio. Page 36 Table of Contents Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance. See “Risks Related to Our Business―Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements. Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions.” These regulations, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, if any, and other business and legal restrictions. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries have a superior claim to such subsidiaries’ assets. Our subsidiaries may not be able to pay dividends or otherwise contribute or distribute funds to us in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations. In addition, from time to time, we may find it necessary to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions to our subsidiaries. In addition, we are subject to RBC requirements by the BCBSA. See “Risks Related to Our Business―The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.” Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. Results of companies in the insurance industry, and particularly the property and casualty insurance industry, historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made and natural catastrophes; • changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital. Historically, the financial performance of the insurance industry has fluctuated in cyclical periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition, followed by periods of high premium rates and a shortage of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Fluctuations in underwriting capacity, demand and competition, and the impact on us of the other factors identified above, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that underwriting capacity and price competition in the current market is increasing. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the kinds or amounts of business they write or cause some insurers to seek to maintain market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. We may not be able to retain or attract customers in the future at prices we consider adequate. If we do not effectively manage the growth of our operations, we may not be able to achieve our profitability targets. Our growth strategy includes enhancing our market share in Puerto Rico, entering new geographic markets, introducing new insurance products and programs, further developing our relationships with independent agencies or brokers and pursuing acquisition opportunities. Our strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • successfully implement our underwriting, pricing, claims management and product strategies over a larger operating region; • properly design and price new and existing products and programs and reinsurance facilities for markets in which we have no direct experience; • identify, train and retain qualified employees; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and brokers and expand the range of Triple-S products carried by our existing agents and brokers; • develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other managed care providers that meets our requirements and those of applicable regulators; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. Page 37 Table of Contents Any such risks or difficulties could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies or result in diversion of senior management time and adversely affect our financial results. We are expanding our business operations outside of Puerto Rico and the United States Current and potential business operations outside Puerto Rico and the United States may be affected by our ability to identify profitable new geographic markets to enter and our ability to operate in any such new geographic markets. We may also be subject to changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting our business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments. We may be also affected by our ability to obtain licenses in new areas where we wish to market our products. Deterioration of social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region and difficulties in managing foreign operations may also adversely affect our operations or financial results. Also, fluctuations in foreign currency rates could affect our financial results. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees and independent agents and brokers. We are dependent on retaining existing employees, attracting and retaining additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains. Our life insurance subsidiary, TSV, has historically experienced a very high level of turnover in its home service agents, through which it places a majority of its premiums, and we expect this trend to continue. Our inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to market our products effectively, we must continue to recruit, retain and establish relationships with qualified independent agents and brokers. We may not be able to recruit, retain and establish relationships with agents and brokers. Independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us and may frequently also market our competitors’ managed care products. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers. If such agents and brokers do not help us to maintain our current customer accounts or establish new accounts, our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Our investment portfolios are subject to varying economic and market conditions. We have exposure to market risk and credit risk in our investment activities. The fair values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. Fixed maturity securities expose us to interest rate risk as well as credit risk. Equity securities expose us to equity price risk. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity securities owned by us. The outlook of our investment portfolio depends on the future direction of interest rates, fluctuations in the equity securities market and the amount of cash flows available for investment. For additional information, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for an analysis of our exposure to interest and equity price risks and the procedures in place to manage these risks. Our investment portfolios may lose money in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to local laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed income securities, mortgage loans, and real estate and equity investments, among others, which could generate higher returns on our investments. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, any investments exceeding regulatory limitations would be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital. The securities and credit markets could experience extreme volatility and disruption. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets could significantly and adversely affect the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, other investments, our profitability and our financial position. As an insurer, we have a substantial investment portfolio that is comprised particularly of debt securities of issuers located in the U.S. As a result, the income we earn from our investment portfolio is largely driven by the level of interest rates in the U.S. financial markets, and volatility, uncertainty and/or disruptions in the global capital markets, particularly the U.S. credit markets, and governments’ monetary policy, can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our profitability and/or our financial position by: Page 38 Table of Contents • Significantly reducing the value of the debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and creating net realized capital losses that reduce our operating results and/or net unrealized capital losses that reduce our shareholders’ equity. • Lowering interest rates on high quality short-term debt securities and thereby materially reducing our net investment income and operating results. • Making it more difficult to value certain of our investment securities, for example if trading becomes less frequent, which could lead to significant period-to-period changes in our estimates of the fair values of those securities and cause period-to-period volatility in our operating results and shareholders’ equity. • Reducing our ability to issue other securities. We evaluate our investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. It also requires us to make certain assessments about the potential recovery of the assets we hold. For the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities is based upon specific identification. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2011, there were $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of realized losses associated with other-than-temporary impairments. During the year ended December 31, 2012, there were no realized losses associated with other-than-temporary impairments. The gross unrealized losses of our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities were $11.8 million and $0.4 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The gross unrealized gains of our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities were $89.0 million and $121.3 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Given current market conditions, there is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. We believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under credit agreement, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements. However, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of credit. The geographic concentration of our business in Puerto Rico may subject us to economic downturns in the region. We have business operations in the U.S. Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, the British Virgin Islands and Anguilla. However, substantially all of our business activity is with corporate customers and individuals located throughout Puerto Rico, and as such, we are subject to the risks associated with the Puerto Rico economy. The major factors affecting the economy are, among others, oil prices, the economic activity in the United States, and the continuing economic uncertainty generated by the budgetary deficiency affecting the government of Puerto Rico. The Government of Puerto Rico continues to face a deficit between recurring government revenues and expenses. The Government of Puerto Rico has implemented and is currently implementing initiatives geared towards achieving a balanced budget. These measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. Also, the Administration of Employees Retirement System of the Government of Puerto Rico (“AERS”) anticipates that, based on the current contributions and benefit structure, its future cash flow needs for disbursement of benefits to participants, administrative expenses and debt service are likely to continue to exceed the sum of the employer and employee contributions received and its investment and other recurring income. Retirement systems for other public servants are also facing adverse financial situations. Legislation has been enacted to amend the Retirement System for the Employees of the Government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Puerto Rico Teachers’ Retirement System and the Judiciary Retirement System with the objective of reducing the expenses borne by the Government of Puerto Rico. During 2013, participants under these three retirement systems challenged the constitutionality of the amendments enacted. The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico upheld the constitutionality of the amendments to the AERS retirement systems, the prospective application of the amendments to the judiciary retirement system, and stayed the effective date of the amendments to the teacher’s retirement system pending its final determination on the matter. As of the date of this Annual report on Form 10-K, there is uncertainty if this legislation will be implemented and, if implemented, its likelihood of success. Page 39 Table of Contents In February 2014, Puerto Rico’s general obligation debt was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s from BBB- to BB+, by Moody’s Investors Services from Baa3 to Ba2, and by Fitch Ratings from BBB- to BB. Each of these ratings is below investment grade. If the liquidity of the Government of Puerto Rico, its agencies, municipalities and public corporations becomes significantly affected by the recent downgrades by the rating agencies or as a result of the inability to raise funding in the market or generate enough revenues, we may face credit losses in our premium and fees receivable from these government related entities, which could be significant. If economic conditions in Puerto Rico continue to deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, and we may be exposed to a higher level of credit losses from both government and commercial accounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and significant employees, and the loss of any one or more of these officers and their expertise could adversely affect our business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior executives, each of whom has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. While we believe that we could find replacements, the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of our executive officers could adversely affect our business. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the industries in which we operate have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to successfully operate and expand a business such as ours. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. We only have non-competition agreements in place with three executive officers, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. The success of our business depends on developing and maintaining effective information systems. Our business and operations may be affected if we do not maintain and upgrade our information systems and the integrity of our proprietary information. We are materially dependent on our information systems, including Internet-enabled products and information, for all aspects of our business operations. Monitoring utilization and other factors, supporting our managed care management techniques, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators, and our ability to compete depends on adopting technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. Malfunctions in our information systems, fraud, error, communication and energy disruptions, security breaches or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, alienate customers, contribute to customer and provider disputes, result in regulatory violations and possible liability, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The use of member data by all of our businesses is regulated at federal and local levels. These laws and rules change frequently and developments require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure. Our information systems and applications require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, upgrade and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, compliance with legal requirements (such as a new set of standardized diagnostic codes, known as ICD-10), and changing operational needs. In addition, we may from time to time obtain significant portions of our systems-related or other services or facilities from independent third parties, which may make our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately. If we are unable to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the information we rely upon to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain our information systems and data integrity effectively we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing and reserves, loss of members, and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. In addition, federal regulations require that we begin using ICD-10 by October 2014, which will require significant information technology investment. If we fail to adequately implement ICD-10, we may incur losses with respect to the resources invested and have other material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. In order to become ICD-10 compliant, we changed TSS’s core business application, which we implemented in the third quarter of 2012. In addition, we completed the version upgrade process of such business application in the third quarter of 2013. TSS is coordinating ICD-10 implementation efforts with BCBSA, service providers, clearing houses, local and federal government stakeholders in order to insure a timely compliance. Page 40 Table of Contents Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security system and patient data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The internet is a public network and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. We are taking all needed security measures to prevent security breaches, and ensure our business operations won’t be adversely affected by potential security breaches. We face risks related to litigation. In addition to the litigation risks discussed above in ‘‘Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock’’, we are, or may be in the future, a party to a variety of legal actions that affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of our products and services. These could include: • claims relating to the denial of managed care benefits or insurance coverage; • medical malpractice actions; • allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; • provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; • broker and agents dispute over fees and term of their respective agreements; • disputes related to self-funded business; • disputes over co-payment calculations; • claims related to the failure to disclose certain business practices; • claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and • claims by regulatory agencies or whistleblowers for regulatory non-compliance, including but not limited to fraud and health information privacy (including HIPAA). We are a defendant in various lawsuits, some of which involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts and the outcome of which is unpredictable. While we are defending these suits vigorously, we will incur expenses in the defense of these suits. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in damage awards could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Large-scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Puerto Rico has historically been at a relatively high risk of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. If Puerto Rico were to experience a large-scale natural disaster, claims incurred by our managed care, property and casualty and life insurance segments would likely increase and our properties may incur substantial damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-financial covenants in our secured term loans and note purchase agreements may restrict our operations. We are a party to secured loans with two commercial banks for an aggregate amount of $29.3 million, for which we have outstanding balances of $16.1 million and $13.2 million as of December 31, 2013, respectively. Also, we have outstanding a senior unsecured note with an aggregate principal amount of $35.0 million, this note bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.60% and is due in 2020. The secured term loan and the note purchase agreements governing the notes contain financial and non-financial covenants that restrict, among other things, the granting of certain liens, limitations on acquisitions and limitations on changes in control. These non-financial covenants could restrict our operations. In addition, if we fail to make any required payment under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements governing the notes or to comply with any of the non-financial covenants included therein, we would be in default and the lenders or holders of our debt, as the case may be, could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and, in the case of the secured term loans, cease to make further extensions of credit. If the indebtedness under our secured term loans or note purchase agreements is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or re-finance the amounts due and our business may be materially adversely affected. Page 41 Table of Contents We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Covenants related to such indebtedness could also adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our debt service obligations may require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be prohibited by applicable regulatory requirements or unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our secured term loan and note purchase agreements and the acceleration of amounts due thereunder. Indebtedness could also limit our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities, and may affect our ability to maintain an investment grade rating for our indebtedness. We may pursue acquisitions in the future. We may acquire additional companies or assets if consistent with our strategic plan for growth. The following are some of the potential risks associated with acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • disruption of on-going business operations, distraction of management, diversion of resources and difficulty in maintaining current business standards, controls and procedures; • difficulty in integrating information technology of an acquired entity and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • difficulty in the integration of an acquired entity’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resources and other administrative systems and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • difficulty in the implementation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for filers with the SEC at companies that prior to acquisition lacked such controls, policies and procedures; • potential unknown or under-estimated liabilities associated with the acquired company; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • dilutive issuances of equity securities and incurrence of additional debt to finance acquisitions; • establish goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of a future business combination, which may be incorrectly valued or become non-recoverable; • other acquisition-related expenses, including amortization of intangible assets and write-offs; and • competition with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies. In addition, we may not successfully realize the intended benefits of any acquisition or investment. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, it may adversely affect our financial condition and future results of operations. As of December 31, 2013 we had approximately $25.4 million and $18.3 million of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet, primarily related to the AH acquisition, that represent 2.1% of our total consolidated assets and 5.6% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity. If we make additional acquisitions it is likely that we will record additional goodwill and intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Page 42 Table of Contents In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine the recoverability of their carrying values. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually. Impairment testing requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the estimated fair value of our reporting units, including goodwill and other intangible assets (with indefinite lives). Estimated fair values developed based on our assumptions and judgments might be significantly different if other reasonable assumptions and estimates were to be used. If estimated fair values are less than the carrying values of the equity and other intangible assets with indefinite lives in future impairment tests, or if significant impairment indicators are noted relative to other intangible assets subject to amortization, we may be required to record significant impairment losses against future income. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in the industry. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in stockholders' equity could, in turn, negatively impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. In addition, the estimated value of our reporting units may be impacted as a result of the implementation of various Health Care Reform regulations. Such regulations could have significant effects on our future operations, which in turn could unfavorably affect our ability to support the carrying value of certain goodwill and other intangible assets and result in significant impairment charges in future periods. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations―Critical Accounting Estimates―Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Risks Relating to Taxation If we are considered to be a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. persons that own our shares of Class B common stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences. We do not expect that we will be considered a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules (a “RPII CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because RPII CFC status depends in part upon the correlation between an insurance company’s shareholders and such company’s insurance customers and the extent of such company’s insurance business outside its country of incorporation, there can be no assurance that we will not be a RPII CFC in any taxable year. We do not intend to monitor whether we generate RPII or becomes a RPII CFC. If we were a RPII CFC in any taxable year, certain adverse tax consequences could apply to U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences. Based on our current business assets and operations, we do not expect that we will be considered a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’ (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because PFIC status depends upon the composition of our income and assets and the market value of our assets (including, among others, less than 25 percent owned equity investments) in each year, which may be uncertain and may vary substantially over time, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. Our belief that it is not a PFIC is based, in part, on the fact that the PFIC rules include provisions intended to provide an exception for bona fide insurance companies predominately engaged in an insurance business. However, the scope of this exception is not entirely clear and there are no administrative pronouncements, judicial decisions or Treasury regulations that provide guidance as to the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies. If the Company were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, certain adverse consequences could apply to certain U.S. persons that own our shares of Class B common stock. Page 43 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry Changes in governmental regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial federal and local regulation and frequent changes to the applicable legislative and regulatory schemes, including general business regulations and laws relating to taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, insurance, Medicare and health care fraud and abuse laws. Please refer to “Item 1. Business – Regulation”. Changes in these laws, enactment of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretation of these laws or changes in enforcement of these laws and regulations may materially impact our business. Such changes include without limitation: • initiatives to provide greater access to coverage for uninsured and under-insured populations without adequate funding to health plan or to be funded through taxes or other negative financial levy on health plans; • payments to health plans that are tied to achievement of certain quality performance measures and by health plans that do not satisfy applicable medical loss ratio requirements; • other efforts or specific legislative changes to the Medicare or Medicaid programs, including changes in the bidding process or other means of materially reducing premiums; • local government regulatory changes; • increased government enforcement, or changes in interpretation or application, of fraud and abuse and health information privacy laws; and • regulations that increase the operational burden on health plans that increase a health plan’s exposure to liabilities, including efforts to expand the tort liability of health plans. Regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, influence how our insurance subsidiaries conduct business and solicit subscriptions for shares of capital stock, and place limitations on investments and dividends. Possible penalties for violations of such regulations include fines, orders to cease or change practices or behavior and possible suspension or termination of licenses. The regulatory powers of the Commissioner of Insurance are designed to protect policyholders, not shareholders. While we cannot predict the terms of future regulation, the enactment of new legislation could affect the cost or demand of insurance policies, limit our ability to obtain rate increases in those cases where rates are regulated, otherwise restrict our operations, limit the expansion of our business, expose us to expanded liability or impose additional compliance requirements. In addition, we may incur additional operating expenses in order to comply with new legislation and may be required to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. Future regulatory actions by the Commissioner of Insurance or other governmental agencies, including federal regulations, could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could impact the value of our business model and result in potential impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets. The health care reform law and the implementation of that law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. The ACA provides comprehensive changes to the U.S. health care system, which are being phased in at various stages through 2018. The legislation imposes an annual insurance industry assessment of $8 billion starting in 2014, with increasing annual amounts thereafter. Such assessment may not be deductible for income tax purposes. If the cost of the federal premium tax is not included in the calculation of our rates, or if we are unable to otherwise adjust our business model to address this new tax, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. Also, beginning in 2014, health plans serving the individual market are subject to the guaranteed issue provisions under which the plans are required to issue coverage to individuals without regard to their health status of pre-existing conditions, which could lead to adverse selection by consumers. If we are unable to adapt our premium structure to address the guaranteed issue requirement, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. There are numerous outstanding steps required to implement the legislation, including the promulgation of a substantial number of new and potentially more onerous federal regulations. Further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. This legislation could impact us through potential disruption to the employer-based market, potential cost shifting in the health care delivery system to insurance companies and limitations on the ability to increase premiums to meet costs. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms and numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what additional health insurance requirements will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that any future legislation or regulation will have on our business or our growth opportunities. Page 44 Table of Contents Although we believe the legislation may provide us with significant opportunities to grow our business, the enacted reforms, as well as future regulations and legislative changes, may in fact have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of health care reform, or do not do so as effectively as our competitors, our business may be materially adversely affected. As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be exposed to criminal sanctions and significant civil penalties, and our Medicare Advantage contracts may be terminated or our operations may be required to change in a manner that has a material impact on our business. The laws and regulations governing Medicare Advantage program participants are complex, subject to interpretation and can expose us to penalties for non-compliance. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal fines, civil penalties or other sanctions, including the termination of our Medicare Advantage contracts. Under CMS regulations to implement certain ACA requirements that became effective on June 1, 2012, CMS has the authority not to renew our contracts at the beginning of 2015 based solely on our Star Ratings if our ratings do not improve to three or more stars for at least one of the three contract years starting in 2013 and ending in 2015. See the subcaption “Federal regulations” in Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for detailed information of the Stars Ratings. In addition, CMS has the existing authority to terminate any of our Medicare Advantage contracts or our Part D contract if it determines that any of these plans has failed to substantially carry out the contract or is carrying out the contract in a manner that is inconsistent with the efficient or effective administration of the Medicare Advantage or Part D program. Any termination or non-renewal of our Medicare Advantage or Part D plans would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage plans with an overall Star Rating of three or more stars (out of five) are eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. Initially, quality bonuses were limited to the few plans that achieved 4 or more stars as their overall Star Rating, but CMS is using demonstration authority to expand the quality bonus to 3 star plans for a three year period through 2014. Also beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage Star Ratings affect the rebate percentage available for plans to provide additional member benefits (plans with quality ratings of 3.5 stars or above will have their rebate percentage increased from a base rate of 50% to 65% or 70%). In all cases, these rebates percentages are lower than the previous percentage of 75%. Furthermore, CMS implemented a series of initiatives to encourage beneficiaries to receive care through plans that receive Star Ratings of 3 stars or higher. These initiatives include: (i) notifying beneficiaries in low rated plans of their plan’s low rating and advising them of their ability to elect another plan with a Star Rating of 3 or higher in 2014; (ii) limiting a low rated plan’s ability to accept enrollments online through the Medicare Plan Finder; and (iii) limiting the scope and detail of information about low rated plans set forth in the CMS Medicare & You handbook. TSS has a contract with CMS with regards to three (3) Medicare Advantage plans and one (1) stand-alone Part D plan. AH has a single plan covering both Part C and Part D services. For 2013, the AH plan was rated at 3 stars and the four TSS plans received Star Ratings of 2.5 stars. Three of the TSS’s plans had received a Star Rating lower than three stars for each of years 2011 through 2013. As a result, on October 2012, CMS issued notices to enrollees concerning these three plans alerting them of the plans’ low rating, encouraging them to explore higher rated plan options, and offering them the opportunity to move into higher quality plans during a special enrollment period in 2013. Due to our plans’ Star Ratings for 2012, we were not eligible for full-level quality bonuses or increased rebates in 2012 or 2013. The AH plan’s Star Rating for 2013 qualifies the plan for the quality bonus corresponding to that rating and rebate adjustment for 2014. The remaining plans are not eligible for such bonuses or rebates. This situation could adversely affect the broadness of the benefits such plans can offer, and reduce their membership and profit margins. In October 2013, CMS issued its Star Ratings for 2014. The AH plan retained its 3 star rating for Part C and increased its Part D rating from 2.5 to 3 stars. Two of our TSS plans increased their overall ratings to 3 stars; the Part D portion of these plans, however, received 2.5 stars. The other two TSS plans remained at 2.5 stars. Accordingly, CMS issued notices to enrollees in all four TSS plans alerting them of the plans’ low rating, encouraging them to explore higher rated plan options, and offering them the opportunity to move into higher quality plans using a special enrollment period during 2014. If the TSS plans do not achieve Star Ratings of 3 stars or higher for 2015, CMS will have the discretion not to renew their Medicare Advantage contracts as of December 31, 2014. Page 45 Table of Contents We are devoting the resources and management attention we believe necessary to improve our Star ratings, but may not be successful in increasing the TSS plans to 3 stars or higher. Our failure to achieve Star Ratings of 3 or higher for each of our plans, or to otherwise improve our administration of these plans, would jeopardize our ability to attract and retain members in our TSS Medicare Advantage and Part D plans, as well as our ability to continue to participate in these federal programs and to successfully bid for future CMS contracts in these programs. From April 30, 2012 through May 4, 2012, the Medicare Advantage programs of TSS and AH were audited by CMS. This full performance audit review focused on our organization performance in Part D formulary and benefit administration, Part D coverage determinations, appeals and grievances, Part C organizational determinations, appeals and grievances, and dismissals, agent/broker oversight, Part C access to care, Part C and Part D enrollment, disenrollment, late enrollment penalty and compliance program effectiveness. On May 10, 2012, as part of these audits, CMS notified Triple-S Salud that it was noncompliant with multiple CMS drug formulary administration requirements and beneficiary coverage determination, appeals and grievances requirements. On October 9, 2012, CMS imposed a $350,000 civil monetary penalty on TSS for the formulary and benefit administration violations discovered during the audit, as well as for noncompliance with CMS disenrollment requirements. The AH plan was not subject to any sanctions. CMS conducted several validation studies to determine whether the immediate corrective action plans (“CAPs”) were effective in remedying the deficiencies discovered at TSS during the audit. On October 17, 2012 CMS notified TSS that it passed the second validation study for the CAP related to Part D coverage determinations, appeals and grievances. Also on October 17, 2012, CMS issued a draft report of its TSS and AH plan audits. The report contained various findings in all five plans. Our response to the report was issued on January 30, 2013. During 2013, CMS issued engagement letters to TSS and AH to review the validation processes for their respective Medicare Advantage products, including TSS’s Part D product. CMS review went through the corrective measures we implemented in connection with the findings issued during CMS’s audit in 2012. This review on the validation processes was completed and we are waiting the CMS’s closing letter on this matter. If we fail to comply with our corrective action plans with CMS and ASES regarding our provider credentialing and re-credentialing procedures, we may be subject to CMS compliance actions and ASES sanctions, ranging in each case from monetary penalties to contract termination In the course of an internal compliance assessment conducted in January 2013, our Medicare Advantage compliance department reviewed the files of twenty medical providers in TSS's Medicare Advantage plan network and found that these files did not comply with TSS's policy for documenting the verification of provider credentials nor with the credentialing or re-credentialing documentation requirements mandated by CMS for Medicare Advantage plans. Upon learning of this issue, we voluntarily reported it to CMS and prepared a CAP to validate that the credentials of all of TSS's Medicare Advantage network providers have been verified and documented in compliance with CMS requirements. Under the CAP we submitted to CMS for the credentialing and re-credentialing of our TSS Medicare Advantage provider network, we committed to complete the corresponding procedures for all of the providers by October 31, 2013. As the result of a slower than anticipated external source verification process and provider response rate, we adjusted the CAP deadline to December 20, 2013, the same deadline established in the ASES CAP described below. Our failure to have properly credentialed and re-credentialed the TSS Medicare Advantage provider network may result in compliance action by CMS. We believe this action, if any, could range from a monetary fine, to a ban on certain marketing of the TSS Medicare Advantage plans, to a termination of TSS’s Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS. Any penalty that CMS ultimately imposes could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. On April 5, 2013, ASES approved the CAP we submitted on March 4, 2013 regarding the credentialing of our provider network used Medicaid. In August 2013, ASES retained external auditors to test the credentialing and re-credentialing procedures for such network and the progress we had made under the CAP. The auditors concluded that the credentialing documentation examined did not comply with the minimum requirements under federal regulation and under the Medicaid contract. As a result, ASES supplemented the CAP and set a credentialing schedule with weekly milestones intended to bring all of our Medicaid provider files into compliance with the applicable credentialing and re-credentialing requirements by December 20, 2013. Page 46 Table of Contents We failed to meet initial milestones under the CAP, for which ASES issued a warning and a notice of administrative inquiry on September 13, 2013, and October 30, 2013, respectively. As a result, and pursuant to the notice, we submitted a supplemental CAP, outlining how we planned to achieve the goal of re-credentialing all of the providers in the TSS’s Medicaid network within the deadline. The supplemental CAP also included additional activities to be completed on or before April 30, 2014. We met the milestones under the supplemental CAP scheduled to be completed by the December 20, 2013 deadline. In connection with this credentialing and re-credentialing process, TSS sent 1,556 letters of intent of contract termination to providers in the TSS Medicaid network, with an effective date of January 31, 2014. Subsequently, some of these providers completed their credentialing or re-credentialing process. On January 31, 2013, TSS canceled its contracts with 487 providers that were not properly credentialed and removed them from the Medicaid network. Some of those providers subsequently completed a re-credentialing and, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our contracts with 249 of these providers remain canceled. We intend to come into full compliance with our CMS and ASES credentialing and re-credentialing requirements. Although we can give no assurances as to whether we will be able to satisfy CMS or ASES credentialing and re-credentialing requirements with respect to all current providers. If we are unable to maintain the adequacy of our network our ability to conduct our business may be adversely affected. We may be subject to government audits, regulatory proceedings or investigative actions, which may find that our policies, procedures, practices or contracts are not compliant with, or are in violation of, applicable healthcare regulations. Federal and Puerto Rico government authorities, including but not limited to the Commissioner of Insurance, ASES, CMS, the OIG, the Office of the Civil Rights of HHS, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the OPM, regularly make inquiries and conduct audits concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. We may also become the subject of non-routine regulatory or other investigations or proceedings brought by these or other authorities, and our compliance with and interpretation of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged. In addition, our regulatory compliance may also be challenged by private citizens under the “whistleblower provisions” of applicable laws. The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost, diversion of resources, and a possible material adverse effect on our business. An adverse action could result in one or more of the following: • recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; • mandated changes in our business practices; • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key employees; • loss or non-renewal of our government contracts or loss of our ability to participate in Medicare or other federal or local governmental payor programs; damage to our reputation; • increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; • inability to obtain approval for future services or geographic expansions; and • loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurance company, preferred provider or managed care organization or other licensed entity or to otherwise provide a service. Our failure to maintain an effective corporate compliance program may increase our exposure to civil damages and penalties, criminal sanctions and administrative remedies, such as program exclusion, resulting from an adverse review. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could reduce our revenue and profitability and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. Page 47 Table of Contents Effective prevention, detection and control systems are critical to maintain regulatory compliance and prevent fraud and failure of these systems could adversely affect the Company. Failure to prevent, detect or control systems related to regulatory compliance or the failure of employees to comply with our internal policies, including data systems security or unethical conduct by managers and employees, could adversely affect our reputation and also expose it to litigation and other proceedings, fines and penalties. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud and abuse a priority. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing, and violations of patient privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to the Company are complex and subject to change. In addition, ongoing vigorous law enforcement, a highly technical regulatory scheme and the Dodd-Frank legislation and related regulations being adopted that enhance regulators’ enforcement powers and whistleblower incentives and protections, mean that its compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources. In addition, provider or member fraud that is not prevented or detected could impact our medical costs or those of our self-insured customers. Further, during an economic downturn, our segments, including our Life Insurance and Property and Casualty segments may see increased fraudulent claims volume which may lead to additional costs because of an increase in disputed claims and litigation. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. HIPAA regulations also provide access rights and other rights for health plan beneficiaries with respect to their health information. These regulations include standards for certain electronic transactions, including encounter and claims information, health plan eligibility and payment information. Health plans are also subject to beneficiary notification and remediation obligations in the event of an authorized use or disclosure of personal health information. HIPAA also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. For example, final HHS regulations released in January 2013 implementing the ARRA amendments to HIPAA may further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and may impose additional compliance requirements on our business. In addition, HHS has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities. Although we are not aware of HHS plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are also subject to Puerto Rico Act No. 194 of August 25, 2000, also known as the Patient’s Rights and Responsibilities Act, including provisions more stringent than HIPAA. There is uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements which make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult. For these reasons, our total compliance costs may increase in the future. On February 11, 2014, ASES notified TSS of its intention to impose a civil monetary penalty of $6.8 million dollars with respect to a breach involving the inadvertent display of protected health information of Medicare Advantage beneficiaries. See, “Item 3. Legal Proceedings–Unauthorized Disclosure of Protected Health Information” for more information. Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Page 48 Table of Contents The revised rate calculation system for Medicare Advantage, the payment system for the Medicare Part D and changes in the methodology and payment policies used by CMS to establish rates could reduce our profitability and the benefits we offer our beneficiaries. Effective January 1, 2006, a revised rate calculation system based on a competitive bidding process was instituted for Medicare Advantage managed care plans, including our Dual and Non-Dual products. The statutory payment rate was relabeled as the benchmark amount, and plans submit competitive bids that reflect the costs they expect to incur in providing the base Medicare benefits. For 2014, if the accepted bid is less than the benchmark, Medicare pays the plan its bid plus a rebate of 50% of the amount by which the benchmark exceeds the bid, if the star rating is 3.5 or 4 stars the rebate is 65% of the amount by which the benchmark exceeds the bid and if the star rating is 4.5 or 5 stars the rebate is 70% of the amount by which the benchmark exceeds the bid. However, these rebates can only be used to enhance benefits or lower premiums and co-pays for plan members. If the bid is greater than the benchmark, the plan will be required to charge a premium to enrollees equal to the difference between the bid and the benchmark, which could affect our ability to attract enrollees. CMS reviews the methodology and assumptions used in bidding with respect to medical and administrative costs, profitability and other factors. CMS could challenge such methodology or assumptions or seek to cap or limit plan profitability. On February 21, 2014, CMS released the “Advance Notice of Methodological Changes for Calendar Year 2015 for Medicare Advantage Capitation Rates, Part C and Part D Payment Policies and 2014 Call Letter”, in which CMS announced significant rate cuts that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. A number of legislative proposals, as well as ACA, include efforts to save federal funds by implementing significant rate reductions to Medicare Advantage plans through changes in the competitive bidding process, tying the country benchmarks to Medicare fee for service expenditures, or other means. In addition, the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit payments to plans are determined through a competitive bidding process, and enrollee premiums also are tied to plan bids. The bids reflect the plan’s expected costs for a Medicare beneficiary of average health; CMS adjusts payments to plans based on enrollees’ health and other factors. The program is largely subsidized by the federal government and is additionally supported by risk-sharing between Medicare Part D plans and the federal government through risk corridors designed to limit the profits or losses of the drug plans and reinsurance for catastrophic drug costs. The government payment amount to plans is based on the national weighted average monthly bid for basic Part D coverage, adjusted for member demographics and risk factor payments. The beneficiary will be responsible for the difference between the government payment amount and his or her plan’s bid, together with the amount of his or her plan’s supplemental premium (before rebate allocations), subject to the co-pays, deductibles and late enrollment penalties, if applicable. Additional subsidies are provided for dual-eligible beneficiaries and specified low-income beneficiaries. Medicare also provides individual reinsurance to plans, which subsidizes 80% of drug spending above an enrollee’s catastrophic threshold. We face the risk of reduced or insufficient government funding and we may need to terminate our Medicare Advantage and/or Part D contracts with respect to unprofitable markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as a result of the competitive bidding process, our ability to participate in the Medicare Advantage and/or the Part D programs is affected by the pricing and design of our competitors’ bids. Moreover, we may in the future be required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium in order to maintain our current level of profitability, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. CMS’s risk adjustment payment system and budget neutrality factors make our revenue and profitability difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments to our results of operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare Advantage plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for such plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS phased in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS for reconciliation with CMS’s internal database. As a result of this process, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. In addition, our own risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the payments we receive from CMS and our Medicare payment revenue. There can be no assurance that our contracting physicians and hospitals will be successful in improving the accuracy of recording diagnosis code information, which has an impact on our risk scores. Page 49 Table of Contents Between 2003 and 2011, payments to Medicare Advantage plans were also adjusted by a ‘‘budget neutrality’’ factor that was implemented by Congress and CMS to prevent health plan payments from being reduced overall while, at the same time, directing risk adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment favorably impacted payments to all Medicare Advantage plans. However, this adjustment has been phased out. Furthermore, even with the enactment of ACA, MedPac and other constituencies continue to recommend that Congress enact legislation that would reduce Medicare Advantage payment to equalize payments for services made through Medicare Advantage plans and the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. We cannot provide assurance if, when or to what degree Congress may enact legislation including any such recommendation, but any reduction in Medicare Advantage rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. If during the open enrollment season our Medicare Advantage members enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan, they will be automatically disenrolled from our plan, possibly without our immediate knowledge. Pursuant to the MMA, members enrolled in one insurer’s Medicare Advantage program will be automatically disenrolled from that program if they enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program. If our members enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program we may not discover that such member has been disenrolled from our program until such time as we fail to receive reimbursement from the CMS in respect of such member, which may occur sometime after the disenrollment. As a result, we may discover that a member has disenrolled from our program after we have already provided services to such individual. Our profitability would be reduced as a result of such failure to receive payment from CMS if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from them. Medicare and Medicaid spending by the federal government could be decreased as part of the spending cuts associated with the debt ceiling. The Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-155) requires President Obama to submit to Congress a report on the potential sequestration triggered by the failure of the Joint Selective Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose, and Congress to enact, a plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion, as required by the Budget Control Act of 2011. The sequestration resulted in cuts of 2% (approximately $11.1 billion) to Medicare on March 1, 2013. We cannot predict whether Congress will take any action to change the automatic spending cuts. Further, we cannot predict how states will react to any changes that occur at the federal level. If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences. We are subject to change of control statutes applicable to insurance companies. These statutes regulate, among other things, the acquisition of control of an insurance company or a holding company of an insurance company. Under these statutes, no person may make an offer to acquire or to sell the issued and outstanding voting stock of an insurance company, which constitutes 10% or more of the issued and outstanding stock of an insurance company, or of the total stock issued and outstanding of a holding company of an insurance company, or solicit or receive funds in exchange for the issuance of new shares of the holding company’s or its insurance subsidiaries’ capital stock, without the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation (the articles) prohibit any institutional investor from owning 10% or more of our voting power and any person that is not an institutional investor from owning 5% or more of our voting power. We cannot, however, assure you that ownership of our securities will remain below these thresholds. To the extent that a person, including an institutional investor, acquires shares in excess of these limits, our articles provide that we will have the power to take certain actions, including refusing to give effect to a transfer or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind a transfer, in order to avoid a violation of the ownership limitation in the articles. If the Commissioner of Insurance determines that a change of control has occurred, we could be subject to fines and penalties, and in some instances the Commissioner of Insurance would have the discretion to revoke our operating licenses. Page 50 Table of Contents We are also subject to change of control limitations pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. The BCBSA ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for an institutional investor and less than 5% for a non-institutional investor, both as defined in our articles. In addition, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or a combination thereof, representing a 20% or more ownership interest, whether voting or non-voting, in our company. This provision in our articles cannot be changed without the prior approval of the BCBSA and the vote of holders of at least 75% of our common stock. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements. Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed by our insurance subsidiaries to us. Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply in the future. Failure to maintain required levels of capital or to otherwise comply with the reporting requirements of the Commissioner of Insurance could subject our insurance subsidiaries to corrective action, including government supervision or liquidation, or require us to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions, to our subsidiaries to ensure they maintain their minimum statutory capital requirements. We are also subject to minimum capital requirements pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. See “Risks Related to Our Business―The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Puerto Rico insurance laws and regulations and provisions of our articles and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and have the effect of entrenching management. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and our articles and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our license agreements with the BCBSA require that our articles contain certain provisions, including ownership limitations. See “Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry―If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.” Other provisions included in our articles and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. In particular, our articles and bylaws: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; • divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors; • impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and • impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to amend our articles and bylaws. Page 51 Table of Contents See also “Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry―If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.” Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance may also delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, the Commissioner of Insurance must review any merger, consolidation or new issue of shares of capital stock of an insurer or its parent company and make a determination as to the fairness of the transaction. Also, a director of an insurer must meet certain requirements imposed by Puerto Rico insurance laws. These voting and other restrictions may operate to make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 