ITEM 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. Risks Related to Our Business Fluctuations in our revenue and operating results on a quarterly basis could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, have in the past fluctuated, and may in the future fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. This would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: •unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, which are not fixed by contract and vary on a purchase order basis; •uncertain demand in our two primary end markets for our products; •the loss of one or more of our customers, causing a significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; •decreases in the overall average selling prices of our products; •changes in the relative sales mix of our products; •changes in our cost of finished goods; 14 Table of Contents •the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components used in our customers' products; •our customers' sales outlook, purchasing patterns and inventory adjustments based on demands and general economic conditions; •product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; •our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner; •the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or by our competitors; and •fluctuations in our effective tax rate. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short-term. We have limited historical financial data from which to predict future sales for our products. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our future revenue and budget our operating expenses accordingly. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. We may not sustain or increase profitability in the future, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. To sustain or increase profitability, we will need to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We currently expect to increase expense levels in each of the next several quarters to support increased research and development efforts. These expenditures may not result in increased revenue or customer growth. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall of sales. We also believe our future effective tax rate will be at or near the current statutory tax rate, which is higher than our average historical annual effective tax rate. This will harm our future financial results and negatively impact our profitability. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. This may, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to decline. The demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions, which could impact our business. The United States and international economies are currently experiencing a period of economic downturn. The timing of sustained economic recovery, if any, is uncertain. In addition, terrorist acts and similar events, turmoil in the Middle East or war in general, could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for our products. If the economy continues to slow down as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our products, which may harm our operating results. Our business has been adversely affected by the current economic downturn. Demand for our products has suffered as customers delay purchasing decisions or change or reduce their discretionary spending. Fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and businesses may delay or postpone purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial 15 Table of Contents news, which could negatively affect demand for our products. Consequently, demand could be different from our expectations due to many factors including: •changes in business and economic conditions, including conditions in the credit market that could affect consumer confidence; •customer acceptance of our products; •changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations; and •changes in the level of inventory at customers. If the growth of demand for digital video applications for the security surveillance and automotive infotainment markets does not continue, our ability to increase our revenue could suffer. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on increased demand for digital video applications in the security surveillance and automotive infotainment markets. In 2009, 70% of our revenue was derived from the sale of our products designed for the security surveillance market. If our products sold into this market decline or do not increase, or if demand slows in this market generally, our operating results would suffer. In addition, we have increased our focus on the automotive infotainment market and devoted substantial resources to the development of products for digital video applications that address this market. If we are not successful in selling our products into this market, or if the automotive infotainment industry in general continues to experience weak demand, we may not recover the costs associated with our efforts in this area and our operating results could suffer. The growth of our target markets is uncertain and will depend in particular upon: •the pace at which new digital video applications are adopted; •a continued reduction in the costs of products in these markets; •the availability, at a reasonable price, of components required by such products, such as LCD panels; and •consumer confidence and the continued increase of consumer spending levels. Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, which we may not be able to do in a timely manner, as product development in smaller wafer fabrication geometries becomes more complex and costly. The development of new products is highly complex, and we have experienced some delays in bringing new products to the market in the past. As our products integrate new, more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design. In addition, in our effort to decrease cost, we intend to design new products in smaller fabrication geometries, some of which we may have no prior experience of success. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies. Completing these projects is extremely challenging, time-consuming and expensive, and we can give no assurance that we will succeed or succeed in a timely and cost-effective manner. Product development delays may result from unanticipated engineering complexities, changing market or competitive product requirements or specifications, difficulties in overcoming resource limitations, the inability to license third-party technology or other factors. If we are unable to develop products successfully, in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 16 Table of Contents The average selling prices of our semiconductor products may be subject to rapid price declines, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. The semiconductor products we develop and sell may be subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. From time to time, we have had to reduce our prices significantly to meet customer requirements, and we may be required to reduce our prices in the future. This would cause our gross margins to decline which in turn may negatively impact our operating results. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue and profitability. The markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, continuous evolving customer requirements and declining average selling prices. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or potential competitors. If we do not compete successfully, our market share and revenue may decline. We compete with large semiconductor manufacturers and designers, and our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. Many of our current and potential customers have their own internally developed semiconductor solutions and may choose not to purchase products from third-party suppliers like us. We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and harm the market's perception of us. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of Fumihiro Kozato, our president and chief executive officer, and Dr. Feng Kuo, our senior vice president and chief technical officer. We do not have long-term employment contracts with these or any other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. If we fail to develop new products and enhance our existing products in order to react to rapid technological change and market demands, our business will suffer. We must develop new products and enhance our existing products with improved technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements. We need to design products for customers who continually require higher performance and functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to cost-effectively add features that enhance performance and functionality to our products. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate market trends. Our failure to accurately anticipate market trends in a timely manner will harm the market acceptance of our products and the sales of our products. Developing and enhancing these products is uncertain and can be time-consuming, costly and complex. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications or not be competitive with products from our competitors that offer 17 Table of Contents comparable or superior performance and functionality. Any new products or product enhancements may not be accepted in new or existing markets. Our business will suffer if we fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements on a cost-effective basis. If we fail to achieve initial design wins for our products, we may lose the opportunity for sales for a significant period of time to customers and be unable to recoup our investments in our products. We expend considerable resources in order to achieve design wins for our products, especially our new products and product enhancements. Once a customer designs a semiconductor into a product, it is likely to continue to use the same semiconductor or enhanced versions of that semiconductor from the same supplier across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning the product to incorporate a different semiconductor. If we fail to achieve an initial design win in a customer's qualification process, we may lose the opportunity for significant sales to that customer for a number of its products and for a lengthy period of time. This may cause us to be unable to recoup our investments in our products, which would harm our business. If we fail to develop, in a timely manner, or at all, technologies that address the demands of a shift from analog video signals to digital video signals, our operating results could suffer. Our semiconductors are principally designed to decode analog video signals into digital images. On June 12, 2009, transmission of broadcast TV signals were no longer permitted in analog and all broadcast signals must be in a digital format. Current forecasts project that many other electronic products and applications will similarly transition to digital transmission. We are developing mixed signal and digital technologies to decode digital signals. However, transmission of digital video involves a combination of emerging technologies. The complexities of these technologies and the variability in implementations between manufacturers may cause our development of semiconductors to be costly and time-consuming. We may never obtain the benefits of our investment in developing these technologies. The complexities of digital broadcast technologies may also cause some of the semiconductors we are developing to ultimately work incorrectly for reasons that may be either related or unrelated to our products, or not be interoperable with other key products. Delays or difficulties in integrating our semiconductors into digital broadcast products or the failure of products incorporating digital video to achieve broad market acceptance could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to seasonality, which is likely to cause our revenue to fluctuate. Our business is subject to seasonality as a result of the location of our customers. We sell a significant number of our semiconductors to customers located in Asia, primarily to customers located in regions who observe the Lunar New Year holiday, also referred to as Chinese New Year. Typically, our foreign offices and those of our customers are closed for a week or more during the extended holiday period. In 2009, 91% of our revenue was attributable to customers located in regions that observe the Lunar New Year holiday. As a result, we typically experience fluctuations in our first calendar quarter due in part to a slowing of business activity around the period of the Lunar New Year holiday. We manufacture our products based on our estimates of customer demand, and if our estimates are incorrect our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers may cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products. We manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would increase our losses. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. 18 Table of Contents We do not expect to sustain the growth rate of our recent revenue. Our revenue increased 109% in 2005 from 2004 and 49% in 2006 from 2005. We do not expect to achieve similar growth rates in future periods. For example, our revenue increased 11% in 2007 from 2006 and 13% in 2008 compared to 2007 and decreased 7% in the 2009 compared to 2008. You should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business objectives. We may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses, which could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. For example, we acquired substantially all of the assets of a development stage company in October 2009. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not successfully addressed, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company. Even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert management's attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of existing operations. In addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in our tax rates will affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates will be favorably or unfavorably affected by the absolute amount and future geographic distribution of our pre-tax income, our ability to take advantage of the available tax planning strategies and the availability of tax credits. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The outcomes of these examinations, when and if they occur, could harm our financial condition. We may not be able to manage our future growth effectively, and we may need to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth. We have experienced a period of significant growth and expansion, which has placed, and any future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on management, personnel, systems and financial resources. We have hired additional employees to support an increase in research and development as well as increase our sales and marketing efforts, which resulted in increasing our headcount from 96 employees as of December 31, 2006 to 206 employees as of December 31, 2009. To manage our growth successfully, we believe we must effectively: •train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel and financial and information technology personnel; •continue to enhance our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; •implement additional and improve existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; •expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and •manage multiple relationships with our customers, distributors, suppliers and other third-parties. 19 Table of Contents Our efforts may require substantial managerial and financial resources and may increase our operating costs even though these efforts may not be successful. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. We may experience unforeseen delays, expenses or lower than expected product yields for our semiconductors manufactured by our third-party vendors, which could increase our costs and prevent us from recognizing the benefits of new technologies we develop. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future that may render our new or enhanced products, when introduced, obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to achieve satisfactory product yields. Product yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to the semiconductor foundry. Since low yields may result from either design or process difficulties, identifying yield problems can only occur well into the production cycle after a product that can be physically analyzed and tested exists. Poor yields from our foundry could cause us to sell our products at lower gross margins and therefore harm our financial results. Defects in our products could increase our costs, cause customer claims and delay our product shipments. Although we test our products, they are complex and may contain defects and errors. In the past, we have encountered defects and errors in our products. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns and product liability claims against us, which may not be fully covered by insurance. Any of these could harm our business. We rely on a limited number of independent subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our semiconductors, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we must rely on third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We currently rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, to produce the majority of our semiconductors. We rely on Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, to assemble, package and test many of our products. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products, services and production and test capacity in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer and our sales could decrease. Other significant risks associated with relying on these third-party vendors include: •reduced control over product cost, delivery schedules and product quality; •potential price increases; •inability to achieve required production or test capacity and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; •longer delivery times; •increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; •shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture products; 20 Table of Contents •labor shortages or labor strikes; and •quarantines or closures of manufacturing facilities due to the outbreak of viruses, such as SARS, the avian flu or any similar future outbreaks in Asia. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party vendors. Therefore, they are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Neither TSMC nor ASE has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available for us to meet future demand for our products. These third-party vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies' products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, other customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with TSMC or ASE may cause either or both of them to reallocate capacity to those customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. We plan to retain additional foundries to manufacture our semiconductors, which could disrupt our current manufacturing process and negatively impact our sales volumes and revenue. We are a fabless semiconductor company which relies on third-party manufacturers or foundries to manufacture our semiconductors. We are reliant on these foundries for the manufacture of our products as well as providing services to assist us in getting our products into production. As a result of the complexity in manufacturing our semiconductors, it is difficult to determine if a new foundry will be able to successfully produce our products. We may not be able to enter into a relationship with a new foundry that produces satisfactory yields on a cost-effective basis. If we need another foundry because of increased demand, or the inability to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our current provider, we might not be able to cost-effectively and quickly retain other vendors to satisfy our requirements. Any failure to successfully integrate a new foundry could negatively impact our sales volumes and revenue. Our business depends on customers, suppliers and operations in Asia, and as a result we are subject to regulatory, operational, financial and political risks, which could adversely affect our financial results. The percentage of our revenue attributable to sales to customers in Asia was 97%, 98% and 98% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect that revenue from customers in Asia will continue to account for substantially all of our revenue. All our sales currently are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. Currently, we maintain international sales offices in Asia, and we rely on a network of third-party sales representatives to sell our products internationally. We have offices in China, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea, which serve various aspects of our business. Moreover, we have in the past relied on, and expect to continue to rely on, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors primarily located in Taiwan. Accordingly, we are subject to several risks and challenges, any of which could harm our business and financial results. These risks and challenges include: •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures; •compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to the import or export of semiconductor products; •legal uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; •foreign currency exchange fluctuations relating to our international operating activities; 21 Table of Contents •our ability to receive timely payment and collect our accounts receivable; •political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses, such as the SARS outbreak or avian flu in the countries in which we and our customers, suppliers, manufacturers and subcontractors are located; •legal uncertainties regarding protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and •fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions. Our sales cycle can be lengthy, which could result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenue. Because our products are based on constantly evolving technologies, we have experienced a lengthy sales cycle for some of our semiconductors, particularly those designed for digital video applications in the automotive infotainment market. Our sales cycle typically ranges from six to 24 months. We may experience a delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory to the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. In addition, because we do not have long-term commitments from our customers, we must repeat our sales process on a continual basis even for current customers looking to purchase a new product. As a result, our business could be harmed if a customer reduces or delays its orders, chooses not to release products incorporating our semiconductors or elects not to purchase a new product or product enhancements from us. We primarily sell our products through a limited number of distributors, and if our relationships with one or more of those distributors were to terminate, our operating results may be harmed. We market and distribute our products primarily through a limited number of distributors, most of which are located in Asia. This distribution channel has been characterized by rapid change and consolidations. Distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our revenue in the past. Sales to our distributors represented 72%, 79% and 77% of our revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2009, one of our distributors, Lacewood International Corporation, accounted for 35% of our revenue. We do not have any long-term contractual commitments with our distributors. Our operating results and financial condition could be significantly disrupted by the loss of one or more of our current distributors and sales representatives, volume pricing discounts, order cancellations, delays in shipment by one of our major distributors or sales representatives or the failure of our distributors or sales representatives to successfully sell our products. We face risks associated with doing business in China. We derived 54%, 37% and 26% of our revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from customers located in China and significantly increased our operations in China in October 2009 by hiring 40 employees in Chengdu, China in connection with our purchase of substantially all of the assets of a development stage company. As a result, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. In addition, the legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available in the event of any claims or disputes that we have with third parties, including our ability to protect the intellectual property we develop in China or elsewhere. As China's legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, 22 Table of Contents regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Some of the other risks related to doing business in China include: •the Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities; •restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our cash effectively; and •more restrictive rules on foreign investment could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations in China. As a result of our growing operations in China, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely primarily upon copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights and if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. We seek to protect our proprietary design processes, documentation and other written materials primarily under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: •the laws of other countries in which we market our semiconductors, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies; •people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting these actions; and •policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third-parties to benefit from our technologies without compensating us for doing so. For example, if the foundry that manufactures our semiconductors loses control of our intellectual property, it would be more difficult for us to take remedial measures since it is located in Taiwan, which does not have the same protection for intellectual property as is provided in the United States. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, generate revenue and grow our business. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the semiconductors we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies and processes. Although we rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technology in the semiconductors we currently manufacture and market, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree upon obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2009, we had two issued patents in the United States and 23 Table of Contents eleven patent applications pending in the United States and seven applications pending in foreign jurisdictions. These patents and patent applications do not cover all of the semiconductors that we presently manufacture and market. We cannot assure you that any additional patents will be issued. Even if a new patent is issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or file pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and patent applications. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide us with competitive advantages. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners. We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products, services or technology without our authorization. Also, current or former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to penetrate our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information and technology or interrupt our business. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate these techniques. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated, particularly in countries where laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We cannot assure you that our efforts to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will succeed. Identifying unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. We have in the past been engaged in litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, including our customers. It is possible that the advent of or developments in such litigation may adversely affect our relationships and agreements with certain customers that are either involved in such litigation or also have business relationships with the party with whom we are engaged in litigation. Such litigation (and the settlement thereof) is very expensive and time consuming. Additionally, any litigation can divert the attention of management and other key employees from the operation of the business, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Intellectual property litigation, which is common in our industry, could be costly, harm our reputation, limit our ability to sell our products and divert the attention of management and technical personnel. Our industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. For example, during 2005 and 2006, we were a party to an administrative proceeding in front of the intellectual property tribunal in South Korea in which another party unsuccessfully sought a determination that our TW2824 and TW2834 products infringed a South Korean patent allegedly held by that party. We have certain indemnification obligations to customers under our contract development projects with respect to any infringement of third-party patents and intellectual property rights by our products. If a lawsuit were to be filed against us in connection with claims of infringement, our business would be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Questions of infringement in the digital video applications market involve highly technical and subjective analyses. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce any patents we may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and we may not prevail in any future litigation. Litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled, could be costly, could harm our reputation, could cause our customers to use our competitors' products and could divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel from normal business operations. In addition, adverse determinations in litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from third-parties or prevent us from licensing our technology or selling our products, any of which could seriously harm our business. Our headquarters are located in the State of California and our third-party manufacturing, assembly and testing vendors have facilities in the State of Washington and in Taiwan, areas subject to significant earthquake risks. Any disruption to our or their operations resulting from earthquakes or other natural disasters could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our product. TSMC, which manufactures substantially all of our semiconductors, has facilities in the State of Washington and in Taiwan. Our assembly and testing vendors' facilities are primarily located in Taiwan. In addition, our headquarters are located in Northern California. The risk of an earthquake or extreme weather in the Pacific Rim region or an earthquake in Northern California or Washington State is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. In September 1999, a major earthquake in Taiwan affected the facilities of TSMC and ASE, our primary assembly vendor, as well as other providers of foundry, packaging and test services. In March 2002 and June 2003, additional earthquakes occurred in Taiwan. In 2005, several typhoons also disrupted the operations of TSMC and ASE. As a result of these natural disasters, these contractors suffered power outages and disruptions that impaired their production capacity. The occurrence of earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry or assembly and test capacity. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all, which could harm our operating results. Management may apply our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments to uses that do not increase our market value or improve our operating results. We intend to use our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures. We may also use a portion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments to acquire or invest in complementary technologies, businesses or other assets. We have not reserved or allocated our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments for any specific purpose, and we cannot state with certainty how management will use our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments. Accordingly, management has considerable discretion in applying our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments and may use our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments for purposes that do not result in any increase in our results of operations or market value. Until the cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments are used, they may be placed in investments that do not produce income or lose value. Risks Related to Our Industry Due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and, from time to time, has experienced significant downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventory and accelerated erosion of prices. These factors have caused and could cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and in our 25 Table of Contents operating results. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of this industry to fully recover from downturns could harm our business. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our operating results have varied and may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, or at all. The trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For example, in 2009, the closing price of our stock ranged from a low of $5.16 on March 5, 2009 to a high of $13.49 on December 29, 2009. In addition, the stock market in general has, and The NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that experienced such volatility. This litigation, if instituted against us, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: •market acceptance of our products; •the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; •the existence of opportunities for expansion; and •access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 26 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Additional sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 22.0 million shares of common stock outstanding. A substantial portion of these shares of common stock are entitled to rights to cause us to register the sale of those shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares, other than shares purchased by our affiliates, becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may cause us to delay filing our periodic reports with the SEC, affect our Nasdaq listing, and adversely affect our stock price. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and identified a material weakness. Please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Although we review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, our failure to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by officers, directors, principal stockholders and affiliated entities. Our directors, executive officers and affiliated entities beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial control over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our corporate charter and bylaws and our shareholder rights plan contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; •the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting; •the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; 27 Table of Contents •the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; •the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the indemnification of directors and officers and the ability of stockholders to take action; •the required approval of holders of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors for cause; and •the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, our stockholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in us without advance approval from our board of directors. While these provisions and our stockholder rights plan have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our board of directors, the provisions could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would without these provisions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 