Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with our performance and the establishment of financial reserves. Because distributions on the common units are dependent on the amount of cash we generate, distributions may fluctuate based on our performance. The actual amount of cash that is available to be distributed each quarter depends on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and the control of the general partner. The actual amount of cash we have to distribute each quarter is reduced by payments in respect of debt service and other contractual obligations, fixed charges, maintenance capital expenditures and reserves for future operating or capital needs that the board of directors may determine are appropriate. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on cash flow, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, 29 Table of Contents cash distributions might be made during periods when we record losses and might not be made during periods when we record profits. To the extent our board of directors deems appropriate, it may determine to decrease the amount of the quarterly distribution. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2014, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $1.5 billion of total indebtedness. The terms and conditions governing our indebtedness, including NRP’s 9.125% senior notes, Opco’s revolving credit facility, term loan and senior notes, and NRP Oil and Gas’s revolving credit facility: • require us to meet certain leverage and interest coverage ratios; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; • limit our ability to access the bank and capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness; • place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt agreements and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; and • limit management’s discretion in operating our business. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, borrow more money, sell assets or raise equity, and our ability to pursue acquisitions may be limited. We are required to make substantial principal repayments each year in connection with Opco’s senior notes, with approximately $81 million due thereunder each year through 2018. In addition, Opco’s revolving credit facility and term loan both mature in 2016. We will be required to repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under these credit facilities prior to their maturity. We may not be able to refinance these amounts on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or the borrowing capacity under Opco’s revolving credit facility may be substantially reduced. The borrowing base under NRP Oil and Gas’s revolving credit facility is based on the value of our proved reserves and is redetermined on a semi-annual basis in May and October of each year. The current oil price environment or future declines in prices or reduced production from or development of our properties could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base. In such event, we may not be able to access funding under the facility necessary to operate our business or we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or access the bank and capital markets on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to access the capital markets may be challenging in the current commodity price environment. Our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in 30 Table of Contents our debt agreements will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and future events and circumstances beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default under our indebtedness, and such an event of default could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Coal prices continue to be severely depressed, which has negatively affected our coal-related revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Further declines or a continued low price environment could have an additional adverse effect on our coal-related revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Prices for both steam and metallurgical coal have declined substantially in recent years and remain at levels close to or below the level of operating costs for a number of our lessees. The prices our lessees receive for their coal depend upon factors beyond their or our control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • changes in fuel consumption patterns of electric power generators; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, especially natural gas; • global economic conditions, including the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the demand for steel; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • weather conditions; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Natural gas is the primary fuel that competes with steam coal for power generation. Relatively low natural gas prices have resulted in a number of utilities switching from steam coal to natural gas to the extent that it is practical to do so. This switching has resulted in a decline in steam coal prices, and to the extent that natural gas prices remain low, steam coal prices will also remain low. The closure of coal-fired power plants as a result of increased governmental regulations or the inability to comply with such regulations has also resulted in a decrease in the demand for steam coal. Prices for metallurgical coal are also at multi-year lows due to global economic conditions. Our lessees produce a significant amount of the metallurgical coal that is used in both the U.S. and foreign steel industries. Since the amount of steel that is produced is tied to global economic conditions, a continuation of current conditions or a further decline in those conditions could result in the decline of steel, coke and metallurgical coal production. In addition, rising exports of metallurgical coal from Australia and a strong U.S. dollar continue to have a negative effect on prices received for metallurgical coal produced in the United States. Since metallurgical coal is priced higher than steam coal, some mines on our properties may only operate profitably if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal. If these mines are unable to sell metallurgical coal, they may not be economically viable and may be temporarily idled or closed. Lower prices have reduced the quantity of coal that may be economically produced from our properties, which has in turn reduced our coal-related revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Further declines or a continued low price environment could have an additional adverse effect on our coal-related revenues or the value of our reserves. A long term asset generally is deemed impaired when the future expected cash flow from its use and disposition is less than its book value. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we took an impairment charge of $17.6 million relating to certain of our coal related properties. With the continued weakness in the coal markets, we intend to closely monitor our coal assets impairment risk. Future impairment analyses could result in downward adjustments to the carrying value of our assets. 31 Table of Contents Changes in fuel consumption patterns by electric power generators resulting in a decrease in the use of coal have resulted in and will continue to result in lower coal production by our lessees and reduced coal-related revenues. The amount of coal consumed for domestic electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants and environmental and other governmental regulations. We expect that substantially all newly constructed power plants in the United States will be fired by natural gas because of lower construction and compliance costs compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The increasingly stringent requirements of rules and regulations promulgated under the federal Clean Air Act have resulted in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural-gas-fired power plants, or to other alternative energy sources such as solar and wind. In addition, the proposed rules promulgated by the EPA on greenhouse gas emissions from new and existing power plants are expected to further limit the construction of new coal-fired generation plants in favor of alternative sources of energy and negatively affect the viability of coal-fired power generation. These changes have resulted in reduced coal consumption and the production of coal from our properties and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our coal-related revenues. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” and other hazardous air pollutants could result in reduced demand for our coal, oil and natural gas. In December 2009, EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs, present an endangerment to public health and welfare because emissions of such gases are, according to EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on its findings, EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under various provisions of the Clean Air Act. In January 2014, EPA published proposed new source performance standards for GHG emissions from new fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. The effect of the proposed rules would be to require partial carbon capture and sequestration on any new coal-fired power plants, which may amount to their effective prohibition. In June 2014, EPA proposed the Clean Power Plan, which outlined a multi-factor plan to cut carbon emissions from existing electric generating units, including coal-fired power plants. Under this proposed rule, existing power plants would be required to cut their carbon dioxide emissions 30% from 2005 levels by the year 2030. The effect of the proposed rules would be to require many existing coal-fired power plants to incur substantial costs in order to comply or alternatively result in the closure of some of these plants. EPA intends to finalize these rules in the summer of 2015, both of which have been challenged by industry participants and other parties. The implementation of these rules as proposed would have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal by electric power generators and as a result on our coal related-revenues. In addition to EPA’s GHG initiatives, there are several other federal rulemakings that are focused on emissions from coal-fired electric generating facilities, including the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), regulating emissions of nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide, and the Mercury and Air Toxics Rule (MATS), regulating emissions of hazardous air pollutants. Installation of additional emissions control technologies and other measures required under these and other EPA regulations have made it more costly to operate many coal-fired power plants and have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in plant closures. Further reductions in coal’s share of power generating capacity as a result of compliance with existing or proposed rules and regulations would have a material adverse effect on our coal-related revenues. The emission of air pollutants from the exploration and development of crude oil and natural gas and related facilities is also subject to the Clean Air Act and comparable state laws. In 2012, EPA published final New Source Performance Standards for volatile organic compounds and sulfur dioxide and National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants associated with oil and gas facilities. In January 2013, EPA granted petitions asking the agency to reconsider and revise parts of this rule. Accordingly, in September 2013, EPA issued updates to the New Source Performance Standards for the emission of volatile organic compounds from storage vessels used in crude oil and natural gas production. Similarly, in December 2014, EPA finalized rules related to emissions from gas and liquids during well completion. These rules could have an adverse effect on revenues from our interests in oil and natural gas properties. 32 Table of Contents In January 2015, EPA announced plans to propose new regulations to reduce emissions of methane from crude oil and natural gas production and transportation activities such as wells, pipelines, and valves levels by up to 45 percent by 2025 (compared to 2012 levels). EPA expects to propose the new regulations in the summer of 2015 and a final rule is expected in 2016. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on our oil and natural gas revenues. Mining operations are subject to operating risks that could result in lower revenues to us. In addition, we are subject to operating risks as a result of the VantaCore acquisition that we have not previously experienced. Our revenues are largely dependent on the level of production of minerals from our properties, and any interruptions to the production from our properties would reduce our revenues. The level of production is subject to operating conditions or events beyond our or our lessees’ control including: • the inability to acquire necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the mineral deposits and, in the case of coal, the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • the availability of equipment or parts and increased costs related thereto; • the availability of transportation facilities and interruptions due to transportation delays; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • labor-related interruptions; and • unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions. As a result of recent judicial decisions and the increased involvement of the Obama Administration and EPA in the permitting process, there is substantial uncertainty relating to the ability of our coal lessees to be issued permits necessary to conduct mining operations. The non-issuance of permits has limited the ability of our coal lessees to open new operations, expand existing operations, and may preclude new acquisitions in which we might otherwise be involved. We and our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our or their operations. If we or our lessees are pursued for these sanctions, costs and liabilities, mining operations and, as a result, our revenues could be adversely affected. Prior to the VantaCore acquisition, we did not operate aggregates mining and production assets. VantaCore currently operates three hard rock quarries, five sand and gravel plants, two asphalt plants and a marine terminal. As an operator of these assets, we will be exposed to risks that we have not historically been exposed to in our mineral rights and royalties business. Such risks include, but are not limited to, prices and demand for construction aggregates, capital and operating expenses necessary to maintain VantaCore’s operations, production levels, general economic conditions, conditions in the local markets that VantaCore serves, inclement or hazardous weather conditions and typically lower production levels in the winter months, permitting risk, fire, explosions or other accidents, and unanticipated geologic conditions. Any of these risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, VantaCore’s mining properties or production facilities, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining or processing, reduced revenue or losses or possible legal liability. In addition, not all of these risks are reasonably insurable, and our insurance coverage contains limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to meet our needs in the event of loss. Any prolonged downtime or shutdowns at VantaCore’s mining properties or production facilities or material loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and prevent us from realizing all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are extremely volatile. An extended decline or further declines in crude oil and natural gas prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations Crude oil and natural gas prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand and on numerous other factors beyond our control, including: • domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; 33 Table of Contents • the level of prices and expectations about future prices of oil and natural gas; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the price and quantity of foreign imports; • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries with respect to oil price and production controls; • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions and other natural disasters; • risks associated with drilling and completion operations; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including U.S. military operations in the Middle East; • the proximity, cost, availability and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities and the resulting differentials to market index prices; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other currencies. Due to global oversupply of crude oil in part due to increasing U.S. production and a strong U.S. dollar, crude oil prices have fallen significantly since the first half of 2014 to their lowest levels since 2008. In addition, natural gas prices have also fallen to low levels due to record high levels of production and robust storage inventories. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future, and any extended period of low prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations from our oil and gas business. In addition to climate change and other Clean Air Act legislation, our businesses are subject to numerous other federal, state and local laws and regulations that may limit production from our properties and our profitability. The operations of our lessees, VantaCore and OCI Wyoming are subject to stringent health and safety standards under increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws, including mine safety regulations and governmental enforcement policies. The oil and gas industry is also subject to numerous laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our properties. New environmental legislation, new regulations and new interpretations of existing environmental laws, including regulations governing permitting requirements, could further regulate or tax the mining and oil and gas industries and may also require significant changes to operations, the incurrence of increased costs or the requirement to obtain new or different permits, any of which could decrease our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 34 Table of Contents In addition to governmental regulation, private citizens’ groups have continued to be active in bringing lawsuits against coal mine operators and landowners. Since 2012, several citizen suit group lawsuits have been filed against mine operators and landowners for alleged violations of water quality standards resulting from ongoing discharges of pollutants from reclaimed mining operations, including selenium and conductivity. NRP has been named as a defendant in one of these lawsuits. The citizen suit groups have sought penalties as well as injunctive relief that would limit future discharges of these pollutants, which would result in significant expenses for our lessees. While it is too early to determine the merits or measure the impact of these lawsuits, any determination that a landowner or lessee has liability for discharges from a previously reclaimed mine site would result in uncertainty as to continuing liability for completed and reclaimed coal mine operations and could result in substantial compliance costs or fines. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves. Coal, aggregates and industrial minerals, and oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of coal, aggregates and industrial minerals, and oil and natural gas and assumptions and are by nature imprecise. Our reserve estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal, aggregates and industrial minerals, or oil and natural gas recovered from our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • future prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes, and development and reclamation costs; • production levels; • future technology improvements; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on our reserve data that is included in this report. As a result of consolidation in the coal industry and our partnership with Foresight Energy, we derive a large percentage of our revenues and other income from a small number of coal lessees. In 2014, we derived 20% and 12% of our total revenues and other income from Foresight Energy LP and Alpha Natural Resources, respectively. Foresight’s Williamson mine alone was responsible for approximately 10% of our total revenues and other income in 2014. As a result, we have significant concentration of revenues with these lessees. If our lessees merge or otherwise consolidate, or if we acquire additional reserves from existing lessees, then our revenues could become more dependent on fewer mining companies. If issues occur at those companies that impact their ability to pay us royalties, our revenues and ability to make future distributions would be adversely affected. Prices for soda ash are volatile. Any substantial or extended decline in soda ash prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The market price of soda ash directly affects the profitability of OCI Wyoming’s soda ash production operations. If the market price for soda ash declines, OCI Wyoming’s sales will decrease. Historically, the global market and, to a lesser extent, the domestic market for soda ash have been volatile, and those markets are likely to remain volatile in the future. The prices OCI Wyoming receives for its soda ash depend on numerous factors beyond OCI Wyoming’s control, including worldwide and regional economic and political conditions impacting 35 Table of Contents supply and demand. Glass manufacturers and other industrial customers drive most of the demand for soda ash, and these customers experience significant fluctuations in demand and production costs. Substantial or extended declines in prices for soda ash could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, OCI Wyoming relies on natural gas as the main energy source in its soda ash production process. Accordingly, high natural gas prices increase OCI Wyoming’s cost of production and affect its competitive cost position when compared to other foreign and domestic soda ash producers. VantaCore operates in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, which may negatively impact prices, volumes and costs. In addition, both commercial and residential construction are dependent upon the overall U.S. economy, which is recovering at a slow pace. The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in operating in VantaCore’s local markets. Additionally, VantaCore also competes against large private and public companies, some of which are significantly vertically integrated. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of markets in which VantaCore operates. This significant competition could lead to lower prices and lower sales volumes in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. In addition, commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The U.S. economy is recovering from the 2008-2009 recession, but the pace of recovery is slow. Since construction activity generally lags the recovery after down cycles, construction projects have not returned to their pre-recession levels. We may incur unanticipated costs or delays in connection with the integration of VantaCore and future aggregates operations into our company. There are risks with respect to the integration of VantaCore into our company that may result in unanticipated costs or delays to us. Such risks include: • integrating additional personnel into our company, including the 269 people employed by VantaCore; • establishing the internal controls and procedures for the acquired businesses that we are required to maintain under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • consolidating other corporate and administrative functions; • diversion of management’s attention away from our other business concerns; • loss of key employees; and • the assumption of any undisclosed or other potential liabilities of the acquired company. Similar risks may apply to the integration of future aggregates operations that we may acquire through the VantaCore platform. Any significant costs and delays resulting from the risks described above could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. We may be subject to risks in connection with oil and gas asset acquisitions. The acquisition of oil and gas properties requires an assessment of several factors, including: • recoverable reserves; • the pace of development and drilling and completion activities by operators; • future crude oil and natural gas prices and their differentials; • the availability of and access to takeaway and transportation; • future development costs, operating costs and property taxes; • governmental regulations; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. 36 Table of Contents The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities prior to acquisition. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller of the subject properties may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental and other liabilities and acquire properties on an “as is” basis. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to make acquisitions or access the bank and capital markets to finance our growth. Because our reserves decline due to production, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to make acquisitions to replace reserves that are depleted. If we are unable to make acquisitions on acceptable terms, our revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted. Our ability to acquire additional interests in mineral reserves or make other acquisitions is dependent in part on our ability to access the bank and capital markets. We cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and quarterly distributions. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we are able to acquire, our revenues may decline and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is a possibility that any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Any debt we incur to finance an acquisition may also reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other mineral companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our royalty revenues could decrease. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations within the constraints of their leases, including decisions relating to: • the payment of minimum royalties; • marketing of the minerals mined; • mine plans, including the amount to be mined and the method of mining; • processing and blending minerals; • expansion plans and capital expenditures; • credit risk of their customers; • permitting; • insurance and surety bonding; • acquisition of surface rights and other mineral estates; • employee wages; • transportation arrangements; • compliance with applicable laws, including environmental laws; and 37 Table of Contents • mine closure and reclamation. A failure on the part of one of our lessees to make royalty payments, including minimum royalty payments, could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property and enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek a replacement lessee. We might not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we did, we might not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the existing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell minerals at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult for us to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated mineral reserves. We have limited control over the activities on our properties that we do not operate and are exposed to operating risks that we do not experience in the royalty business. We do not have control over the operations of OCI Wyoming or our non-operated oil and gas working interest properties. We have limited approval rights with respect to OCI Wyoming, and our partner controls most business decisions, including decisions with respect to distributions and capital expenditures. Adverse developments in OCI Wyoming’s business would result in decreased distributions to NRP. The oil and gas properties in which we own working interests are operated by third-party operators and involve third-party working interest owners. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures required to fund such properties. These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are ultimately responsible for operating the transportation infrastructure at Foresight’s Williamson mine, and have assumed the capital and operating risks associated with that business. As a result of these investments, we could experience increased costs as well as increased liability exposure associated with operating these facilities. Oil and gas development activities require substantial capital. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a decline in the value of our properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We have capital expenditures and operating expenses associated with the wells in which we own working interests and are required to fund our proportionate share on any wells in which we decide to participate. Our share of capital expenditures relating to our working interests could exceed our revenues from those interests. Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects. Our operations and other capital resources may not provide cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures. Further, our actual capital expenditures could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include additional reserve based borrowings, debt financing, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements, we may be required to decline to participate in wells, which in turn could lead to a decline in the value of our assets or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal, oil and gas, soda ash, and other minerals from our properties. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total delivered cost for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make 38 Table of Contents minerals produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from producers in other parts of the country. Our lessees depend upon railroads, barges, trucks and beltlines to deliver minerals to their customers. Disruption of those transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply minerals to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair the ability of our lessees to supply minerals to their customers, resulting in decreased royalty revenues to us. In addition, OCI Wyoming transports its soda ash by rail or truck and ocean vessel. As a result, its business and financial results are sensitive to increases in rail freight, trucking and ocean vessel rates. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements, port taxes and fluctuations in the price of fuel, could make soda ash a less competitive product for glass manufacturers when compared to glass substitutes or recycled glass, or could make OCI Wyoming’s soda ash less competitive than soda ash produced by competitors that have other means of transportation or are located closer to their customers. OCI Wyoming may be unable to pass on its freight and other transportation costs in full because market prices for soda ash are generally determined by supply and demand forces. In addition, rail operations are subject to various risks that may result in a delay or lack of service at OCI Wyoming’s facility, and alternative methods of transportation are impracticable or cost-prohibitive. Any substantial interruption in or increased costs related to the transportation of OCI Wyoming’s soda ash could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline and rail systems owned by third parties. The lack or unavailability of capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay, or discontinuance of, development plans for properties in which we own oil and gas interests. In addition, as a result of pipeline constraints in the Williston Basin, a significant amount of crude oil production from the region is transported by rail. Train derailments in the U.S. and Canada have resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of the transportation of crude oil by rail. Any resulting regulations could result in increased transportation costs, which would negatively affect our profitability from our Williston Basin assets. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims as a result of our ownership of working interests in oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against these risks. As an owner of working interests in oil and natural gas operations, we are responsible for our proportionate share of any losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to all of the risks associated with drilling for and producing crude oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, and toxic gas or other pollutants into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; • personal injuries and death; • natural disasters; and • spillage or mishandling of crude oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, hydraulic fracturing fluids, toxic gas or other pollutants by third party service providers. 39 Table of Contents Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with minerals from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of minimum royalty payments. Mineral supply contracts generally do not require operators to satisfy their obligations to their customers with resources mined from specific reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with minerals mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, mine operating costs, cost and availability of transportation, and customer specifications. In addition, lessees move on and off of our properties over the course of any given year in accordance with their mine plans. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with minerals from properties we do not own or lease, production on our properties will decrease, and we will receive lower royalty revenues. A lessee may incorrectly report royalty revenues, which might not be identified by our lessee audit process or our mine inspection process or, if identified, might be identified in a subsequent period. We depend on our lessees to correctly report production and royalty revenues on a monthly basis. Our regular lessee audits and mine inspections may not discover any irregularities in these reports or, if we do discover errors, we might not identify them in the reporting period in which they occurred. Any undiscovered reporting errors could result in a loss of royalty revenues and errors identified in subsequent periods could lead to accounting disputes as well as disputes with our lessees. Risks Related to Our Structure Unitholders may not be able to remove our general partner even if they wish to do so. Our general partner manages and operates NRP. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect the general partner or the directors of the general partner on an annual or any other basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they currently have little practical ability to remove our general partner or otherwise change its management. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding units (including units held by our general partner and its affiliates). Because the owners of our general partner, along with directors and executive officers and their affiliates, own a significant percentage of our outstanding common units, the removal of our general partner would be difficult without the consent of both our general partner and its affiliates. In addition, the following provisions of our partnership agreement may discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management: • generally, if a person acquires 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding other than from our general partner or its affiliates, the units owned by such person cannot be voted on any matter; and 40 Table of Contents • our partnership agreement contains limitations upon the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other limitations upon the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. As a result of these provisions, the price at which the common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute a unitholder’s existing ownership interests. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of common units, without unitholder approval (subject to applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules). We may also issue at any time an unlimited number of equity securities ranking junior or senior to the common units without unitholder approval (subject to applicable NYSE rules). The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • an existing unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in NRP will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own 80% or more of the common units, the general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would like to receive. They may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the general partner. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Under Delaware law, however, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our general partner or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Conflicts of interest could arise among our general partner and us or the unitholders. These conflicts may include the following: • we do not have any employees and we rely solely on employees of affiliates of the general partner; 41 Table of Contents • under our partnership agreement, we reimburse the general partner for the costs of managing and for operating the partnership; • the amount of cash expenditures, borrowings and reserves in any quarter may affect cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders; • the general partner tries to avoid being liable for partnership obligations. The general partner is permitted to protect its assets in this manner by our partnership agreement. Under our partnership agreement the general partner would not breach its fiduciary duty by avoiding liability for partnership obligations even if we can obtain more favorable terms without limiting the general partner’s liability; • under our partnership agreement, the general partner may pay its affiliates for any services rendered on terms fair and reasonable to us. The general partner may also enter into additional contracts with any of its affiliates on behalf of us. Agreements or contracts between us and our general partner (and its affiliates) are not necessarily the result of arm’s-length negotiations; and • the general partner would not breach our partnership agreement by exercising its call rights to purchase limited partnership interests or by assigning its call rights to one of its affiliates or to us. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. A change of control may result in defaults under certain of our debt instruments and the triggering of payment obligations under compensation arrangements. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the general partner of our general partner from transferring its general partnership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers with its own choices and to control their decisions and actions. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit agreement. During the continuance of an event of default under our revolving credit agreement, the administrative agent may terminate any outstanding commitments of the lenders to extend credit to us and/or declare all amounts payable by us immediately due and payable. A change of control also may trigger payment obligations under various compensation arrangements with our officers. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, we have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because tax would 42 Table of Contents be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in a jurisdiction in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You are required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you are required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you receive no cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from you with respect to that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not 43 Table of Contents representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion and depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raise issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Allocations and/or distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate applicable to non-U.S. persons, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our common units and for other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department’s proposed Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention are not final and do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. 44 Table of Contents Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their common units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than the calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. Certain federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Changes to U.S. federal income tax laws have been proposed in a prior session of Congress that would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences relating to coal exploration and development. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) repealing capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties, (ii) eliminating current deductions and 60-month amortization for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, (iii) repealing the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties, and (iv) excluding from the definition of domestic production gross receipts all gross receipts derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of coal, other hard mineral fossil fuels, or primary products thereof. If enacted, these changes would limit or eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. As a result of investing in our common units, you are subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property. In addition to federal income taxes, you are likely subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You are likely required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States. Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 45 Table of Contents 