ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties relating to our business. You should carefully consider the following information about risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We are a company with limited operating history and our future profitability is uncertain and we anticipate future losses and negative cash flow, which may limit or delay our ability to become profitable. We are a company with a limited operating history and no significant revenues to date. To date, we have had only a few revenue-generating services and development contracts. We expect to expend significant resources on consultants, intellectual property protection, research and development, advertising, hiring of personnel and startup costs. We are attempting to obtain the necessary working capital for operations, but we may not be able to obtain financing in a sufficient amount or at all. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to generate revenue, and we may never be able to produce material revenues or operate on a profitable basis. As a result, we have incurred losses since our inception and expect to experience operating losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated total deficit of $62.3 million. 14 Table of Contents We anticipate our losses will continue to increase from current levels because we expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to prototype development, consulting costs, laboratory development costs, marketing and other promotional activities, the addition of engineering and manufacturing personnel, and the continued development of relationships with strategic business partners. Moreover, planned products based upon our Performance Engineered Film™ technology may never become commercially viable and thus may never generate any revenues. Even if we find commercially viable applications for our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials, we may never recover our research and development expenses. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The United States economy has recently experienced, and continues to experience, a financial downturn, with some financial and economic analysts predicting that the world economy may be entering into a prolonged economic downturn characterized by high unemployment, limited availability of credit, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and decreased consumer and business spending. These developments could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us, or may delay paying us for previously purchased products. In addition, this downturn has had, and may continue to have, an unprecedented negative impact on the global credit markets. Credit has tightened significantly in the last several months, resulting in financing terms that are less attractive to borrowers, and in many cases, the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. If this crisis continues or worsens, and if we are required to obtain financing in the near term to meet our working capital or other business needs, we may not be able to obtain that financing. Further, even if we are able to obtain the financing we need, it may be on terms that are not favorable to us, with increased financing costs and restrictive covenants. Our brand name and technology may not be recognized in our marketplace, so our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Our brand name and technology are new and unproven. If we are unable to effectively develop and timely promote our brand and technology and establish a leading position in our marketplace, our results of operations and financial condition will suffer. We believe that the importance of brand recognition and technology will increase over time. In order to gain brand recognition, we may increase our marketing and advertising budgets to create and maintain brand loyalty. We may not be able to increase, or maintain, an advertising budget to create and maintain brand loyalty. We may fail to protect adequately our proprietary technology, which would allow our competitors to take advantage of our research and development efforts. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive processes and products. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, confidentiality and security procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology, products and processes. If we fail to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or from third parties infringing our patents or misappropriating our trade secrets or provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, effective patent and other intellectual property protection may be unenforceable or limited in foreign countries. If a third party initiates litigation regarding the validity of our patents, and is successful, a court could revoke our patents or limit the scope of coverage for those patents. We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We protect this information with reasonable security measures, including the use of confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with strategic partners. It is possible that these agreements may not be sufficient or that these individuals or companies may breach these agreements and that any remedies for a breach will be insufficient to allow us to recover our costs and damages. Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. If we fail to enter cooperative research agreements, we might not succeed in commercializing our technology and materials. Research and development of commercially viable applications for our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials may at some point depend substantially on the success of the work conducted by and with our present and future research partners. We cannot be certain that these research partners will make the additional advances in these technologies and materials that may be essential to successfully commercialize our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials. Moreover, although we fund Performance Engineered Film™ technology research, the scope and technical aspects of this research and the resources and efforts directed to this research currently are and may remain in large part subject to the control of our research partners. 15 Table of Contents If we cannot form and maintain lasting business relationships with targeted partners, or if we cannot obtain proprietary materials, our business strategy could suffer or fail. Our business strategy includes some dependence upon our development and maintenance of commercial licensing and material supply relationships. All of our current relationship discussions with product manufacturers are limited to technology exploration and the evaluation of our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials for possible use in commercial applications. Some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the manufacturers’ entering into commercial licensing and material supply relationships with us. Under our planned technology development and evaluation agreements, we intend to work with strategic partners to incorporate our technologies into their products. However, many of these technology development and evaluation agreements may last for limited periods of time, such that our relationships with these partners could expire unless they are continually renewed. Our partners may not agree to renew their relationships with us on a continuing basis, or may do so on terms that are less favorable to us. In addition, we may continue working with certain strategic partners in evaluating our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials after our existing agreements with them have expired while we are attempting to negotiate contract extensions or new agreements with them. Should our relationships with these partners not materialize, or once in place, not continue to be renewed, our business could suffer. Our ability to enter into commercial licensing and material supply relationships, or to maintain our existing technology development and evaluation relationships, may require us to make financial or other commitments. We might not be able, for financial or other reasons, to enter into or continue these relationships on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to do so will likely harm our business strategy, operating results and long-term business prospects. Our business prospects also depend significantly on our ability to obtain proprietary materials for our own use and for potential sale to display manufacturers and OEMs that incorporate displays in their products. Our inability to reach agreements to obtain certain other materials from other sources could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from sales of these materials, as well as on our ability to perform research and development work. Further, failure to complete long term agreements could preclude our ability to support these manufacturers and OEMs that would choose to license our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials for possible commercial use. Our potential for rapid growth and our entry into new markets make it difficult for us to evaluate our current and future business prospects, and we may be unable to effectively manage any growth associated with these new markets, which may increase the risk of your investment and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our recent development of the UniBoss™ process enables us to enter a large and growing market for transparent touch screens. We believe this technology is a superior replacement to ITO as the transparent conducting layer in a touch screen device. Because this UniBoss™ process is relatively new and we have recently entered new markets in connection therewith, we may be unable to evaluate its relative success and future prospects, particularly in light of our goals to continually grow our existing and new customer base, expand our product offerings, integrate complementary businesses and enter additional new markets. In addition, our potential growth, recent product introductions and entry into new markets may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our executive management, personnel and systems, and our operational, administrative and financial resources may be inadequate. We may also not be able to effectively manage any expanded operations, or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis, particularly if the number of customers using our products and services significantly increase or their demands and needs change as our business expands. If we are unable to manage expanded operations effectively, we may experience operating inefficiencies, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock and our business. We will require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us which could have a materially adverse affect on our business. 16 Table of Contents If we do not receive additional financing when and as needed in the future, we may not be able to continue the research, development and commercialization of our technology and materials. Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. We will likely require substantial additional funds in excess of our current financial resources in the future for research, development and commercialization of our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials, to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights in these technologies and materials, and for working capital and other purposes, the timing and amount of which are difficult to ascertain. Our cash on hand will likely not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs. When and as we need additional funds, such funds may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional funding when and as needed, our business might fail. Additionally, if we attempt to raise funds in a future offering of shares of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants or depositary shares, or if we engage in acquisitions involving the issuance of such securities, the issuance of these shares could dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. A third party may sue us or one of our strategic collaborators for infringing its intellectual property rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our patent rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we or our strategic collaborators may be required to pay monetary damages; stop commercial activities relating to the affected products or services; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products or services; or attempt to compete in the market with a substantially similar product. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some of our operations. In addition, a court may require that we pay expenses or damages, and litigation could disrupt our commercial activities. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological changes, our processes, products or services may become obsolete. The flat panel display market is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Although we will continue to expand our technological capabilities in order to remain competitive, research and discoveries by others may make our processes, products or services less attractive or even obsolete. Our efforts may never demonstrate the feasibility of our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials for broad-based product applications. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including without limitation unanticipated technical or other problems and the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. Technical problems may result in delays and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete, or if we experience significant delays in completing, research and development of our Performance Engineered Film™ technology and materials for use in potential commercial applications, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. Many of our competitors have greater resources, and it may be difficult to compete against them. The flat panel display industry is characterized by intense competition. Many of our competitors have better name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, personnel and/or research capabilities than we do. They have made and continue to make substantial investments in improving their technologies and manufacturing processes. In addition, we believe that at times in the past certain plasma and LCD display panel manufacturers have priced their products below the marginal cost of production in an attempt to establish, retain or increase market share. Because of these circumstances, it may be difficult to compete successfully in the display market. 17 Table of Contents The loss of the services of our key management and personnel or the failure to attract additional key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key employees could severely and negatively impact our operations. Specifically, the loss of services of Reed J. Killion, CEO and President, Seong S. Shin, Chief Operating Officer, Robert J. Petcavich, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Daniel K. Van Ostrand, Vice President Research & Development, or Jeffrey W. Tomz, Chief Financial Officer, none of whom has an employment agreement with us, could significantly harm our business. We have no present intention of obtaining key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers or management. Additionally, competition for highly skilled technical, managerial and other personnel is intense. As our business develops, we might not be able to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate the highly skilled managers and employees we need to be successful. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel, our business will suffer and might fail. The flat panel display industry has historically experienced significant downturns, which may adversely affect the demand for and pricing of our technology and materials. The flat panel display industry has experienced significant periodic downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity and erosion of average selling prices. Industry-wide fluctuations and downturns in the demand for flat panel displays would likely affect the demand for and pricing of our Performance Engineered Film™ technologies and materials and could cause significant harm to our business. The reliability of market data included in our public filings is uncertain. Since we operate in a rapidly changing market, we have in the past, and may from time to time in the future, include market data from industry publications and our own internal estimates in some of the documents we file with the SEC. This data may be inaccurate, incomplete or unreliable. Industry publications generally state that the information contained in these publications has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but that its accuracy and completeness is not guaranteed. Although we believe that the market data used in our filings with the SEC is and will be reliable, it has not been and will not be independently verified. Similarly, internal company estimates, while believed by us to be reliable, have not been and will not be verified by any independent sources. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our common stock has traded only sporadically and is expected to experience significant price and volume volatility in the future which substantially increases the risk of loss to persons owning our common stock. There was no public market for our common stock prior to February 3, 2005. Prior to December 10, 2010, our common stock was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, where the shares of our common stock have historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. On December 10, 2010, our common stock began listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, but there can be no assurances that our common stock will be actively traded. Because of the limited trading market for our common stock, and the possible price volatility, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock when you desire to do so. The inability to sell your shares in a rapidly declining market may substantially increase your risk of loss because of such illiquidity and because the price for our common stock may suffer greater declines because of its price volatility. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our stock will create or sustain an active and orderly trading market. If such a market were to develop, the market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile. The sale of a large block of shares could depress the price of our common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading in its securities. The value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: · Disappointing results from our development efforts; · Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; · Decline in demand for our common stock; · Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; 18 Table of Contents · Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; · Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; · General economic trends; · Variations in our quarterly operating results; · Our inability to increase revenues: · Announcement of new customer relationships by our competitors; · Departures of our executive officers; · General conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates; · Developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; · Developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; · Any significant acts of terrorism against the United States; and · Our currently limited public float. Our common stock has traded on the OTC Bulletin Board as low as $2.25 and as high as $22.50 during a period from January 1, 2008 through December 9, 2010. Our common stock has traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market as low as $3.98 and as high at $9.20 during the period from December 10, 2010 through December 31, 2011. In addition, the markets for high technology stocks have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of the particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of shares our common stock. We have a significant number of outstanding warrants and options, and future sales of the underlying shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding warrants and options exercisable for an aggregate of 3,504,738 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $7.10 per share. The holders may sell these shares in the public markets from time to time, without limitations on the timing, amount or method of sale. As our stock price rises, the holders may exercise their warrants and options and sell a large number of shares. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our common shares are thinly traded and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Our common stock became listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market on December 10, 2010, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the requirements for continued listing going forward. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded” on the OTC Bulletin Board, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. It is possible that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will not develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. 19 Table of Contents The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; adverse outcomes, additions or departures of our key personnel, as well as other items discussed under this “Risk Factors” section, as well as elsewhere in this prospectus. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. There is no guarantee that our shares will continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Shares of our common stock became listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market on December 10, 2010. We may not be able to meet the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, or there may not be enough brokers interested in making a market for our stock to allow us to continue to list thereon. Therefore, it may be difficult to sell your shares of common stock if you desire or need to sell them. It is possible that an active and liquid trading market in our securities may never develop or, if one does develop, that the market will continue. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of the 7,142,307 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011, approximately 3.2 million shares are held by non- “affiliates” and are, or will be, freely tradable without restriction, and the remaining shares are held by our “affiliates”, as of such date. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus (including sales by investors of securities acquired in connection with this offering) may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our shares of common stock, and have no plans to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, to develop and expand our business operations. 20 Table of Contents Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. These provisions: · authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; · establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board of directors or for proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; · limit who may call stockholder meetings; · do not provide for cumulative voting rights; and · provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 