ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to invest in our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants in order to expand our restaurant base is subject to factors beyond our control. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our planned expansion will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •timely development of new restaurants; •our ability to identify, and secure an adequate supply of available and suitable restaurant sites; •competition for restaurant sites; •negotiation of favorable lease and construction terms; •the availability of construction materials and labor; •management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; •securing required governmental approvals and permits and in a timely manner; •cost and availability of capital to fund restaurant expansion and operation; •availability and retention of qualified operating personnel, especially managers; •competition in our markets and general economic conditions that may influence consumer spending or choice; •attract and retain guests; and •operate at acceptable margins. New or less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue for three years or more. Less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and percentage of revenue initially when compared to restaurants open three years or more. Although new restaurants generally reach and maintain at least a minimal level of profitability within months of opening, less mature restaurants have generally taken three years or more to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation. Further, some, or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. 16 A greater concentration of less mature restaurants in our comparable restaurant base and a larger percentage of operating weeks from new restaurants will impact profitability. Due to our new restaurant growth strategy, we have an increasing number of new and less mature restaurants that have operations less than three years old and which are entering our comparable restaurant base after five full quarters of operations. Because these restaurants generally are less profitable and operate at average sales volumes below our comparable restaurants, our profitability will continue to be impacted until the performance of these restaurants is normalized. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to lack of guest familiarity with our brand in new areas and our lack of familiarity with the new market. Some of our new restaurants will be located in areas where there is a lack of market awareness of the Red Robin® brand and where we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are different from our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. Expansion into new geographic markets negatively impacts our ability to leverage costs, inventory, resources and operating efficiencies for new restaurants. As we expand into new markets and geographic territories, our operating cost structures and practices may not follow our experience in existing markets. For example, we will need to work with new developers. Fewer restaurants in a given area limit our ability to effectively utilize regional supervision of restaurants; and to encourage food distributors to hold sufficient inventory which may lead to spot shortages; development and operating costs may increase due to geographic distances between restaurants that increase purchasing, pre-opening, labor and transportation costs; and we may incur more marketing expense to build brand recognition in areas where we are not well known. In addition, performance of restaurants in new markets may be more unpredictable. Our continuing focus on restaurant expansion through further penetrating existing markets could cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our areas of highest concentration are Arizona, California, Colorado, Ohio, Oregon, Virginia and Washington. In accordance with our expansion strategy, we expect that approximately 50% of our new restaurants operating weeks in 2008 will be from restaurants opened in our existing markets. Because we typically draw guests from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and guest counts for existing restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to the opening of the new restaurant. If our franchisees cannot develop or finance new restaurants, build them on suitable sites or open them on schedule, our growth and success may be impeded. Under our current form of area development agreement, franchisees must develop a predetermined number of restaurants in their area according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development agreement. Franchisees may not have access to management resources that they need to open the restaurants required by their development schedules, or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. Franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. From time to time in the past, we have agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain area developers, and we may do so in the future. Any of these problems could slow our growth and reduce our franchise revenues. 17 Additionally, our franchisees depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing, the lack of adequate availability of such financing could adversely affect the number and rate of new restaurant openings by our franchisees and adversely affect our future franchise revenues. The acquisition of existing restaurants from our franchisees may have unanticipated consequences that could harm our business and financial condition. In addition to our previous acquisitions and announced planned 2008 acquisitions of franchised restaurants, we may in the future continue to selectively acquire existing restaurants from our franchisees who are seeking an exit strategy. In order to complete any proposed acquisition, we would need to, among other things, evaluate the suitability of the proposed acquisition, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms and obtain appropriate financing. Any acquisition that we pursue, whether or not successfully completed, may involve risks, including: •that proposed acquisitions may not be completed, if at all, on a timely basis or upon terms most beneficial to the Company; •the inability to integrate the acquired restaurants into our operations and operate them as expected; •material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as we integrate the franchisee's operations into our operations; •risks associated with entering into markets or conducting operations where we have no or limited experience or brand recognition; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns during the acquisition process; •that an acquisition, depending upon whether accomplished through a cash purchase transaction or the issuance of our equity securities, or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition; and •potential need to spend additional capital to upgrade or align the physical assets or software with our current standards and systems. Our ability to utilize our revolving credit agreement and our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in our operating plans, acceleration of our expansion plans, franchise acquisition opportunities, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses or other events, including those described in this section, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our growth and other plans, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants and/or financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate our business. Our current credit agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, engage in mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures and sale-leaseback transactions, and to sell assets, incur indebtedness, make investments, create liens and pay dividends. Our revolving credit agreement also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. These restrictions 18 could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our recent acquisition in 2007 and our planned 2008 acquisitions will reduce available capital under the credit agreement. Our initiative to address normalizing new restaurant operations may not continue to have a positive impact on our new restaurant operations. In 2007, we undertook development of a number of programs designed to normalize new restaurant performance faster. These programs include systems and training practices when opening a new restaurant designed to decrease the length of time for new restaurants to reach levels of unit sales volumes and profitability similar to more mature restaurants. While we believe that these programs had a positive impact on our new restaurant operations in 2007 by facilitating increases in the average unit volumes of the restaurants and improved profit over restaurants opened in prior years, we cannot predict whether this initiative will continue to generate positive results. The expansion of our national advertising campaign may not produce expected results or be effective. In 2007, we began a national advertising campaign on cable television and the internet, in part to address the lack of brand awareness in new markets where we have or intend to open restaurants, including franchised restaurants. In 2008, we will be expanding the campaign from 11 to 24 weeks with additional media coverage. See Item 1. Business—"Marketing and Advertising". Although we believe the campaign had a positive effect on our restaurant sales in 2007, we cannot provide assurance that the expanded campaign will produce positive results in line with the increased investment. In addition, many of our competitors have successfully used national marketing strategies in the past and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs. Our existing systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our growth plans. We face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information and accounting systems, management resources and human resources will be inadequate to support our planned expansion of company-owned and franchised restaurants. Our expansion may strain our infrastructure and other resources, which could slow our restaurant development or cause other problems. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Any failure by us to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our expansion objectives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our operations are susceptible to the changes in cost and availability of food which could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products and seasonality may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Changes in the price or availability of chicken or beef could materially adversely affect our profitability. Expiring contracts with our food suppliers could also result in unfavorable renewal terms and therefore increased costs associated with these suppliers, or may even necessitate negotiations with alternate suppliers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by negotiating more favorable contract terms with suppliers or by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because we provide a "value-priced" product, we may not be able to pass along food cost increases to our guests in the form of menu price increases. 19 Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to unexpected circumstances, increases in costs, seasonality and other factors. Our quarterly and annual results may fluctuate or be impacted negatively by: increases in energy costs, costs of food, supplies, maintenance and labor and benefits; changes in borrowings and interest rates; changes in customer discretionary spending habits and shopping locales; changes to accounting methods or philosophies; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and losses on restaurant closures; unanticipated expenses from natural disasters and repairs to damaged or lost property. Moreover, our business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the summer months and winter holiday season. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. Price increases may impact guest visits. From time to time, we may announce that we intend to take price increases on selected menu items in order to offset increased operating expenses that we believe would be recurring. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that any future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants, reduce the frequency of their visits or affect their purchasing decisions. Approximately 56% of our company-owned restaurants are located in the Western United States and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in this region. As of December 30, 2007, a total of 140 company-owned restaurants or 56% of all Company-owned restaurants were located in the Western United States (i.e., Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon and Washington). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this region, including its labor market. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the Western United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters. Labor shortages could slow our growth or harm our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified, high-energy team members. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some areas. The inability to recruit and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high team member turnover in existing restaurants, which could harm our business. Additionally, competition for qualified team members could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient team members, which could result in higher labor costs. Most of our team members are paid on an hourly basis. These team members are paid in accordance with applicable wage and hour regulations. Accordingly, any increase in the minimum wage, whether state or federal, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our results of operations. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our restaurants feature burgers, salads, soups, appetizers, other entrees, such as carnitas fajitas and pasta, desserts and our signature Mad Mixology® alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in a family-friendly 20 atmosphere. While burger consumption in the United States has grown over the past 20 years, the demand may not continue to grow or taste trends may change. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of these foods and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, consumer concerns about the economy, including the rise in consumer prices, joblessness and the housing market, may negatively affect consumer discretionary spending. This, in turn, could result in fewer sales or guest visits and have a material adverse effect on our business. A decline in visitors to any of the regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers and entertainment centers near our restaurants, or in discretionary consumer spending could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our restaurants are primarily located near high activity areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. Our success also depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. If the number of visitors to these centers declines due to any of these factors or otherwise, our restaurant sales could decline significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand and compliance with our operating standards, and the confidentiality thereof are maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that our franchisees will avoid actions that adversely affect the reputation of Red Robin or the value of our proprietary information. Our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, may suffer materially and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate these restaurants according to our standards. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property, including the Red Robin America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits® name and logo. Although we have registered trademarks for Red Robin®, America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits® and Mad Mixology®, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in Canada, our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how in operating our restaurants, and we employ various methods to protect those trade secrets and that proprietary know-how. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts and recipes. Consequently, our business could be adversely impacted and less profitable if we are unable to successfully defend and protect our intellectual property. 21 Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about the avian influenza, also known as bird flu, the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity or publication of government or industry findings concerning food quality, illness and injury. Further, consumers may react negatively to reports concerning our food products or health or other concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more of our restaurants. Such negative publicity, whether or not valid, may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in decreased guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact our ability to govern various aspects of our business including our ability to expand and develop our restaurants. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the food safety, alcoholic beverage control and public health and safety. Difficulties or failures in obtaining or maintaining the required licenses and approvals could delay the opening or affect the continued operation and profitability of one or more restaurants in a particular area. We are also subject to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage control or dram shop regulations could subject the company to liability and could adversely affect our business. Various federal and state employment laws govern our relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws govern minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations and sales taxes. Additional government-imposed increases in federal and state minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for team members who receive tips, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could harm our operating results. We are also subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that franchise materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in the state. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In fact, we are subject to the same risks of adverse publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim actually involves one of our franchisees. In addition, any failure by us to comply with the various federal and state labor laws governing our relationship with our team members including requirements pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, 22 meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor requirements and sales taxes, may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. The possibility of a material adverse effect on our business relating to employment litigation is even more pronounced given the high concentration of team members employed in the western United States, as this region, and California in particular, has a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. Further, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. Competition in the restaurant industry is increasingly intense. We compete on the basis of the taste, quality, and price of food offered, guest service, ambiance and overall dining experience. We believe that our operating concept, attractive dining value, quality of food and guest service enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets, to well-capitalized national restaurant companies. In addition, we compete with other restaurants and with retail establishments for real estate. Many of our competitors are well established in the casual dining market segment and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than do we. Accordingly, they may be better equipped than us to increase marketing or to take other measures to maintain their competitive position. Risks Related to Our Company Our stock price may be volatile. The recent market for our equity securities has been extremely volatile. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; •changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; •changes in investor expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; •fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; •our issuances or repurchases of common stock or other securities in the future; and •the addition or departure of key personnel. The stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect stockholders' ability to trade their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 