Item 1A. Risk Factors We must deal with several risk factors during the normal course of business. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information set forth on this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Risks Relating to our Capital Stock Certain of our current and former providers may bring materially dilutive claims against us. Beginning with our founding in 1959 and until 1994, we encouraged, and at times required, the doctors and dentists that comprised our provider network to acquire our shares. Between approximately 1985 and 1994, our predecessor managed care subsidiary, Seguros de Servicios de Salud de Puerto Rico, Inc. (“SSS”) generally entered into an agreement with each new physician or dentist who joined our provider network to sell the provider shares of SSS at a future date (each agreement, a “share acquisition agreement”). These share acquisition agreements were necessary because there were not enough authorized shares of SSS available during this period and afterwards for issuance to all new providers. Each share acquisition agreement committed SSS to sell, and each new provider to purchase, five $40-par-value shares of SSS at $40 per share after SSS had increased its authorized share capital in compliance with the Puerto Rico Insurance Code and was in a position to issue new shares. Despite repeated efforts in the 1990s, SSS was not successful in obtaining shareholder approval to increase its share capital, other than in connection with the Corporation’s reorganization in 1999, when SSS was merged into a newly-formed entity having authorized capital of 25,000 $40-par-value shares, or twice the number of authorized shares of SSS. SSS’s shareholders did not, however, authorize the issuance of the newly formed entity’s shares to providers or any other third party. In addition, subsequent to the reorganization, our shareholders did not approve attempts to increase our share capital in 2002 and 2003. Notwithstanding the fact that TSS and its predecessor, SSS, were never in a position to issue new shares to providers as contemplated by the share acquisition agreements because shareholder approval for such issuance was never obtained, and the fact that SSS on several occasions in the 1990s offered providers the opportunity to purchase shares of its treasury stock and such offers were accepted by very few providers, providers who entered into share acquisition agreements may claim that the share acquisition agreements entitled them to acquire our or TSS’s shares at a subscription price equivalent to that provided for in the share acquisition agreements. SSS entered into share acquisition agreements with approximately 3,000 providers, the substantial majority of whom never came to own shares of SSS. Such share acquisition agreements provide for the purchase and sale of approximately 15,000 shares of SSS. If we or TSS were required to issue a significant number of shares in respect of these agreements, the interest of our existing shareholders would be substantially diluted. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, only one judicial claim to enforce any of these agreements has been commenced. Additionally, we have received inquiries with respect to less than 700 shares under share acquisition agreements. The share numbers set forth in this paragraph reflect the number of SSS shares provided for in the share acquisition agreements. Those agreements do not include anti-dilution protections and we do not believe that the amounts of any claims under the agreements with SSS should be multiplied to reflect our 3,000-for-one stock split. We cannot provide assurances, however, that claimants will not successfully seek to increase the size of their claims by reference to the stock split. We have been advised by our counsel that, on the basis of a reasoned analysis, while the matter is not free from doubt and there are no applicable controlling precedents, we should prevail in any litigation of these claims because, among other defenses, the condition precedent to SSS’s obligations under the share acquisition agreements never occurred, and any obligation it may, or we may be deemed to, have had under the share acquisition agreements should be understood to have expired prior to our corporate reorganization, which took effect in 1999, although the share acquisition agreements do not expressly provide for any expiration. We believe that we should prevail in any litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation, including with respect to the magnitude of any claims that may be asserted by any Page 29 Table of Contents plaintiff, and the interests of our shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that claims under the share acquisition agreements are successful. Heirs of certain of our former shareholders may bring materially dilutive claims against us. For much of our history, we and our predecessor entity have restricted the ownership or transferability of our shares, including by reserving to us or our predecessor a right of first refusal with respect to share transfers and by limiting ownership of such shares to physicians and dentists. In addition, we and our predecessor, consistent with the requirements of our and our predecessor’s bylaws, have sought to repurchase shares of deceased shareholders at the amount originally paid for such shares by those shareholders. Nonetheless, former shareholders’ heirs who were not eligible to own or be transferred shares because they were not physicians or dentists at the time of their purported inheritance (“non-medical heirs”), may claim an entitlement to our shares or to damages with respect to the repurchased shares notwithstanding applicable transfer and ownership restrictions. Our records indicate that there may be as many as approximately 450 former shareholders whose non-medical heirs may claim to have inherited up to 10,500,000 shares after giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, four judicial claim seeking the return of or compensation for less than 80 shares (prior to giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split) had been brought by non-medical heirs of former shareholders whose shares were repurchased upon their death. These heirs purport to represent as a class all non-medical heirs of deceased shareholders whose shares we repurchased. In addition, we have received inquiries from non-medical heirs with respect to less than 700 shares (or 2,100,000 shares after giving effect to the 3,000-for-one stock split). We believe that we should prevail in litigation with respect to these matters; however, we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation regarding these non-medical heirs. The interests of our existing shareholders could be materially diluted to the extent that any such claims are successful. The dual class structure may not successfully protect against significant dilution of your shares of Class B common stock. We designed our dual class structure of capital stock to offset the potential impact on the value of our Class B common stock attributable to any issuance of shares of common stock for less than market value in respect of a successful claim against us under any share acquisition agreement or by a non-medical heir. We believe that this mechanism will effectively protect investors in our shares of Class B common stock against any potential dilution attributable to the issuance of any shares in respect of such claims at below market prices. We cannot, however, provide any assurances that this mechanism will be effective under all circumstances. While we expect to prevail against any such claims brought against us and, to the extent that we do not prevail, would expect to issue Class A common stock in respect of any such claim, there can be no assurance that the claimants in any such lawsuit will not seek to acquire Class B common stock. The issuance of a significant number of shares of Class B common stock, if followed by a material further issuance of shares of common stock to separate claimants, could impair the effectiveness of the anti-dilution protections of the Class B common stock. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that the anti-dilution protections afforded our Class B common stock will not be challenged by share acquisition providers and/or non-medical heir claimants to the extent that these protections limit the percentage ownership of us that may be acquired by such claimants. We believe that such a challenge should not prevail, but cannot provide any assurances of the outcome. In the event that claimants acquire shares of our managed care subsidiary, TSS, at less than fair value, we will not be able to prevent dilution of the value of the Class B shareholders’ ownership interest in us to the extent that the net value received by such claimants exceeds the value of our outstanding shares of Class A common stock. Finally, the anti-dilution protection afforded by the dual class structure may cease to be of further effect five years following the completion of our initial public offering, at which time all remaining shares of Class A common stock may, at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted into shares of Class B common stock even if we have not resolved all claims against us by such time. Future sales of our Class B common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may have an adverse impact on its market price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to decline. Either of these limits our Page 30 Table of Contents future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. There are 20,110,391 shares of Class B common stock and 9,042,809 shares of Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Our Class A common stock is no longer subject to contractual lockup; thus, such shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act by persons other than our ‘‘affiliates’’ within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, although such shares will continue not to be listed on the NYSE and will not be fungible with our listed shares of Class B common stock. In addition, at any time following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, or such earlier date after the first anniversary of the initial public offering as all claims with respect to which anti-dilution protections are afforded to shares of Class B common stock have been resolved, all or any portion of our shares of Class A common stock may at the sole discretion of our board of directors and after considering relevant factors, including market conditions at the time, be converted to shares of Class B common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our inability to contain managed care costs may adversely affect our business and profitability. Substantially all of our managed care revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by contracts with our commercial customers, the government of Puerto Rico (for the Reform program) or the CMS (for our Medicare Advantage and PDP plans), all of which are typically renewable on an annual basis. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for member acuity in the case of the Medicare Advantage products, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under these contracts during the then-current terms. As a result, our profitability in any year depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of managed care services through underwriting criteria, medical management, product design and negotiation of favorable provider contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Reform reimbursement have also caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care costs. Also, we have in the past and may in the future enter into new lines of business in which it may be difficult to estimate anticipated costs. Numerous factors affecting the cost of managed care, including changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies such as genetic laboratory screening for diseases including breast cancer, electronic recordkeeping, the cost of prescription drugs, clusters of high cost cases, changes in the regulatory environment including the implementation of HIPAA amendments under the Stimulus, as well as others, such as implementation of President Obama’s health care reform plan, may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage managed care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to implement increases in premium rates on a timely basis may adversely affect our business and profitability. In addition to the challenge of managing managed care costs, we face pressure to contain premium rates. Our customers may move to a competitor at policy renewal to obtain more favorable premiums. Future Medicare and Reform premium rate levels may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain medical expense or other budgetary constraints. In particular, the government of Puerto Rico has adopted several measures to control Reform expenditures, such as closer and continuous scrutiny of participants’ eligibility, redesign of benefits, co-payments, deductibles, and requiring the establishment of disease management programs. Changes in the Medicare and Reform programs, including with respect to funding, may lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, or reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare and the Reform. A limitation on our ability to increase or maintain our premium levels could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The property and casualty insurance industry is under soft market conditions for commercial lines and consequently is highly competitive, and we believe that it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. Competitors may offer products at prices and on terms that are not consistent with economic standards in an effort to maintain or increase their business. The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical, with periods characterized by intense price competition and less restrictive underwriting standards followed by periods of higher premium rates and more selective underwriting standards. The competitive environment in which we operate Page 31 Table of Contents is also impacted by current general economic conditions, which could reduce the volume of business available to us, as well as to our competitors. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our current provider agreements and to enter into other appropriate agreements. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other managed care providers. We face heavy competition from other managed care plans to enter into contracts with hospitals, physicians and other providers in our provider networks. Consolidation in our industry, both on the provider side and on the managed care side, only exacerbates this competition. Currently certain providers are pressing for legislation that would allow them to negotiate service fees by group. The failure to maintain or to secure new cost-effective managed care provider contracts may result in a loss in membership or higher medical costs. In addition, our inability to contract with providers could adversely affect our business. A reduction in the enrollment in our managed care programs could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. A reduction in the number of enrollees in our managed care programs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could contribute to a reduction in enrollment include: failure to obtain new customers or retain existing customers; premium increases and benefit changes; our exit from a specific market; reductions in workforce by existing customers; negative publicity and news coverage; failure to maintain the Blue Cross Blue Shield license; and any general economic downturn that results in business failures. We are dependent on a small number of government contracts to generate a significant amount of the revenues of our managed care business. Our managed care business participates in government contracts that generate a significant amount of our consolidated premiums earned, net, as follows: • Reform: We participate in the government of Puerto Rico Health Reform Program to provide health coverage to medically indigent citizens in Puerto Rico. Our results of operations have depended to a significant extent on our participation in the Reform program. During each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Reform program has accounted for 18.6%, 20.1% and 22.1%, respectively , of our consolidated premiums earned, net. During the 2009 period, we were the sole Reform provider in two of the eight Reform regions in Puerto Rico on a fully-insured basis. We are also the sole Reform provider in another Reform region on an ASO basis. Since we obtained our first Reform contract in 1995, we have been the sole provider for two to three regions each year. The contract for each geographical area is subject to termination in the event of any non-compliance by the insurance company which is not corrected or cured to the satisfaction of the government entity overseeing the Reform, or on 90 days’ prior written notice in the event that the government determines that there is an insufficiency of funds to finance the Reform. These contracts typically have one-year terms that expire on June 30 of each year, except for the Metro-North region contract which had an October 30 expiration date. Upon the expiration of the contract for a geographical area, the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico usually commences an open bidding process for such area. We intend to continue to participate in the Reform program, but we may not be able to retain the right to service a particular geographical area in which we currently operate after the expiration of our current or any future contracts. Our two fully-insured contracts with the government of Puerto Rico that terminated in June 30, 2009, were first extended until October 31, 2009 and then to December 31, 2009. In December 2009, all of our three government contracts, the two that are fully-insured and the one ASO contract, were extended until June 30, 2010. The premium rates of the Reform business were last increased in July 2008. • Medicare: We provide services through our Medicare Advantage products pursuant to a limited number of contracts with CMS. These contracts generally have terms of one year and must be renewed each year. Each of our contracts with CMS is terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. If we are unable to renew, or to successfully re-bid or compete for any of these contracts, or if the process for bidding materially changes or if any of these contracts are terminated, our business could be materially impaired. During each of the years ended December 31, 2009, Page 32 Table of Contents 2008 and 2007, contracts with CMS represented 27.4%, 25.9% and 17.2% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively, and 33.9%, 12.4% and 34.6% of our consolidated operating income, respectively. • Commercial: Our managed care subsidiary is a qualified contractor to provide managed care coverage to federal government employees within Puerto Rico. Such coverage is provided pursuant to a contract with the OPM that is subject to termination in the event of noncompliance not corrected to the satisfaction of the OPM. During each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 premiums generated under this contract represented 6.7%, 7.3% and 8.2% of our consolidated premiums earned, net, respectively. The operating income generated under this contract represented 1.2% during the year ended December 31, 2009 and 1.1% of our consolidated operating income, during each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. If any of these contracts is terminated for any reason, including by reason of any noncompliance by us, or not renewed or replaced by a comparable contract, our premiums would be materially adversely affected. The further loss or non-renewal of any of our Reform contracts could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could result in the downsizing of certain personnel, the cancellation of lease agreements of certain premises and of certain contracts, and severance payments, among others. A change in our managed care product mix may impact our profitability. Our managed care products that involve greater potential risk, such as fully insured arrangements, generally tend to be more profitable than ASO products and those managed care products where employer groups retain the risk, such as self-funded financial arrangements. There has been a trend in recent years among our Commercial customers of moving from fully-insured plans to ASO, or self-funded arrangements. In addition, the government of Puerto Rico began a pilot project in 2006 in one of the eight geographical areas under which it contracted for Reform services on an ASO basis for certain members instead of contracting on a fully-insured basis. There can be no assurance that the government will not implement such a program in the fully-insured areas served by us. As of December 31, 2009, 66.1% of our managed care customers had fully insured arrangements and 33.9% had ASO arrangements, as compared to approximately 69.5% and 30.5%, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Unfavorable changes in the relative profitability or customer participation among our various products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our failure to accurately estimate incurred but not reported claims would affect our reported financial results. A portion of the claim liabilities recorded by our insurance segments represents an estimate of amounts needed to pay and adjust anticipated claims with respect to insured events that have occurred, including events that have not yet been reported to us. These amounts are based on estimates of the ultimate expected cost of claims and on actuarial estimation techniques. Judgment is required in actuarial estimation to ascertain the relevance of historical payment and claim settlement patterns under each segment’s current facts and circumstances. Accordingly, the ultimate liability may be in excess of or less than the amount provided. We regularly compare prior period liabilities to re-estimated claim liabilities based on subsequent claims development; any difference between these amounts is adjusted in the operations of the period determined. Additional information on how each reportable segment determines its claim liabilities, and the variables considered in the development of this amount, is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates”. Actual experience will likely differ from assumed experience, and to the extent the actual claims experience is less favorable than estimated based on our underlying assumptions, our incurred losses would increase and future earnings could be adversely affected. The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a party to a license agreement with the BCBSA which entitle us to the exclusive use of the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. We believe that the Blue Cross and Blue Shield name and mark are valuable identifiers of our products and services in the marketplace. The termination of this license agreement or changes in the terms and conditions of a license agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 33 Table of Contents Our license agreement with the BCBSA contains certain requirements and restrictions regarding our operations and our use of the BCBS name and mark. Failure to comply with any of these requirements and restrictions could result in a termination of a license agreement. The standards under a license agreement may be modified in certain instances by the BCBSA. From time to time there have been proposals considered by the BCBSA to modify the terms of a license agreement to restrict various potential business activities of licensees. To the extent that such amendments to the license agreement are adopted in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our future expansion plans or results of operations. Upon any event causing termination of the license agreements, we would no longer have the right to use the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. Furthermore, the BCBSA would be free to issue a license to use the BCBS name and mark in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands to another entity. Events that could cause the termination of a license agreement with the BCBSA include failure to comply with minimum capital requirements imposed by the BCBSA, a change of control or violation of the BCBSA ownership limitations on our capital stock, impending financial insolvency and the appointment of a trustee or receiver or the commencement of any action against a licensee seeking its dissolution. Accordingly, termination of a license agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the BCBSA requires us to comply with certain specified levels of risk based capital (“RBC”). RBC is designed to identify weakly capitalized companies by comparing each company’s adjusted surplus to its required surplus (the “RBC ratio”). Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, we may be unable to continue to comply in the future. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation or loss of our BCBS license. Upon termination of a license agreement, the BCBSA would impose a “Re-establishment Fee” upon us, which would allow the BCBSA to “re-establish” a Blue Cross Blue Shield presence in the vacated service area with another managed care company. The fee is currently $91.23 per licensed enrollee. If the re-establishment fee were applied to our total Blue Cross Blue Shield enrollees as of December 31, 2009, we would be assessed approximately $122.9 million by the BCBSA. See “Item 1. Business — Blue Cross and Blue Shield License” for more information. Our ability to manage our exposure to underwriting risks in our life insurance and property and casualty insurance businesses depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance coverage. Reinsurance is the practice of transferring part of an insurance company’s liability and premium under an insurance policy to another insurance company. We use reinsurance arrangements to limit and manage the amount of risk we retain, to stabilize our underwriting results and to increase our underwriting capacity. In the year ended December 31, 2009, 41.3%, or $67.5 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 5.7%, or $6.1 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers. In the year ended December 31, 2008, 42.9%, or $72.1 million, of the premiums written in the property and casualty insurance segment and 7.6%, or $7.6 million, of the premiums written in the life insurance segment were ceded to reinsurers. The premiums ceded and the availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to changing market conditions and may vary significantly over time. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance coverage will increase our risk of loss. We may be unable to maintain our desired reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or obtain new coverage, it will be difficult for us to manage our underwriting risks and operate our business profitably. It is also possible that the losses we experience on insured risks for which we have obtained reinsurance will exceed the coverage limits of the reinsurance. See “Risks Related to Our Business — Large-scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” If the amount of our reinsurance coverage is insufficient, our insurance losses could increase substantially. If our reinsurers do not pay our claims or do not pay them in a timely manner, we may incur losses. We are subject to loss and credit risk with respect to the reinsurers with whom we deal. In accordance with general industry practices, our property and casualty and life insurance subsidiaries annually purchase reinsurance to lessen the impact of large unforeseen losses and mitigate sudden and unpredictable changes in our net income and shareholders equity. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve us from our obligations to policyholders. In the event that Page 34 Table of Contents all or any of the reinsurance companies are unable to meet their obligations under existing reinsurance agreements or pay on a timely basis, we will continue to be liable to our policyholders notwithstanding such defaults or delays. If our reinsurers are not capable of fulfilling their financial obligations to us, our insurance losses would increase, which would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in our A.M. Best rating or our inability to increase our A.M. Best rating could affect our ability to write new business or renew our existing business in our property and casualty segment. Ratings assigned by A.M. Best are an important factor influencing the competitive position of the property and casualty insurance companies in Puerto Rico. In 2009, A.M. Best maintained our property and casualty insurance subsidiary’s rating of “A-” (the fourth highest of A.M. Best’s 16 financial strength ratings) with a stable outlook. A.M. Best ratings represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet obligations to policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Financial strength ratings are used by brokers and customers as a means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. A.M. Best reviews its ratings periodically and we may not be able to maintain our current ratings in the future. A downgrade of our property and casualty subsidiary’s rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing desirable property business or from renewing our existing business. The lines of business that property and casualty subsidiary writes and the market in which it operates are particularly sensitive to changes in A.M. Best financial strength ratings. Significant competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Managed Care The managed care industry in Puerto Rico is very competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively while appropriately pricing the business subscribed, our business and financial condition could be materially affected. Competition in the insurance industry is based on many factors, including premiums charged, services provided, speed of claim payments and reputation. This competitive environment has produced and will likely continue to produce significant pressures on the profitability of our managed care company. In addition, the managed care market in Puerto Rico, other than the Medicare Advantage market, is mature. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Puerto Rico’s population grew by 0.3% between July 2008 and 2009, less than half the national population rate growth of 0.9% during the same period. As a result, in order to increase our profitability we must increase our membership in the new Medicare Advantage program, increase market share in the commercial sector, improve our operating profit margins, make acquisitions or expand geographically. In Puerto Rico, several managed care plans and other entities were awarded contracts for Medicare Advantage or stand-alone Medicare prescription drug plans. These other plans entered that market in 2006 and 2007. We anticipate that they can aggressively market their benefits to our current and our prospective members. Although we believe that we market an attractive offering, there are no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully with these other plans for new members, or that our current members will not choose to terminate their relationship with us and enroll in these other plans. Concentration in our industry also has created an increasingly competitive environment, both for customers and for potential acquisition targets, which may make it difficult for us to grow our business. The parent companies of some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. We may have difficulty competing with larger managed care companies, which can create downward price pressures on premium rates. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressures faced by us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislation at the federal and local levels also may result in increased competition in our market. While we do not anticipate that any of the current legislative proposals of which we are aware would increase the competition we face, future legislative proposals, if enacted, might do so. Complementary Products The property and casualty insurance market in Puerto Rico is extremely competitive. Due to the relatively low level of economic growth in Puerto Rico, there are few new sources of business in this segment. As a result, property and casualty insurance companies compete for the same accounts through aggressive pricing, more favorable policy terms and better quality of services. We also face heavy competition in the life and disability insurance market. We believe these trends will continue. There can be no assurance that these competitive pressures will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page 35 Table of Contents As a holding company, we are largely dependent on rental payments, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries, although the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us is subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance, including maintenance of minimum levels of capital, as well as covenant restrictions in their indebtedness. We are a holding company whose assets include, among other things, all of the outstanding shares of common stock of our subsidiaries, including our regulated insurance subsidiaries. We principally rely on rental income and dividends from our subsidiaries to fund our debt service, dividend payments and operating expenses, although our subsidiaries do not declare dividends every year. We also benefit to a lesser extent from income on our investment portfolio. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the regulations of the Commissioner of Insurance. See “Risks Related to Our Business — Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements. Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions.” These regulations, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed. Our subsidiaries’ ability to make any payments to us will also depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness, if any, business and other legal restrictions. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are not obligated to make funds available to us, and creditors of our subsidiaries have a superior claim to such subsidiaries’ assets. Our subsidiaries may not be able to pay dividends or otherwise contribute or distribute funds to us in an amount sufficient for us to meet our financial obligations. In addition, from time to time, we may find it necessary to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions to our subsidiaries. In addition, we are subject to RBC requirements by the BCBSA. See “Risks Related to Our Business — The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”. Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry. Results of companies in the insurance industry, and particularly the property and casualty insurance industry, historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The industry’s profitability can be affected significantly by: • rising levels of actual costs that are not known by companies at the time they price their products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made and natural catastrophes; • changes in reserves resulting from the general claims and legal environments as different types of claims arise and judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liability develop; and • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested capital. Historically, the financial performance of the insurance industry has fluctuated in cyclical periods of low premium rates and excess underwriting capacity resulting from increased competition, followed by periods of high premium rates and a shortage of underwriting capacity resulting from decreased competition. Fluctuations in underwriting capacity, demand and competition, and the impact on us of the other factors identified above, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that underwriting capacity and price competition in the current market is increasing. This additional underwriting capacity may result in increased competition from other insurers seeking to expand the kinds or amounts of business they write or cause some insurers to seek to maintain market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. We may not be able to retain or attract customers in the future at prices we consider adequate. If we do not effectively manage the growth of our operations, we may not be able to achieve our profitability targets. Our growth strategy includes enhancing our market share in Puerto Rico, entering new geographic markets, introducing new insurance products and programs, further developing our relationships with independent agencies or brokers and pursuing acquisition opportunities. Our strategy is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify profitable new geographic markets to enter; Page 36 Table of Contents • operate in new geographic areas, as we have very limited experience operating outside Puerto Rico; • obtain licenses in new geographic areas in which we wish to market and sell our products; • successfully implement our underwriting, pricing, claims management and product strategies over a larger operating region; • properly design and price new and existing products and programs and reinsurance facilities for markets in which we have no direct experience; • identify, train and retain qualified employees; • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agencies and brokers and expand the range of Triple-S products carried by our existing agents and brokers; • develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other managed care providers that meets our requirements and those of applicable regulators; and • augment our internal monitoring and control systems as we expand our business. We also may encounter difficulties in the implementation of our growth strategies. For instance, our BCBSA license entitles us to use the Blue Cross Blue Shield name and mark only in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. In addition, we may enter into markets or product lines in which we have little or no prior experience. For example, we plan to expand our operations outside Puerto Rico. Any such risks or difficulties could limit our ability to implement our growth strategies or result in diversion of senior management time and adversely affect our financial results. We face intense competition to attract and retain employees and independent agents and brokers. We are dependent on retaining existing employees, attracting and retaining additional qualified employees to meet current and future needs and achieving productivity gains. Our life insurance subsidiary, TSV, has historically experienced a very high level of turnover in its home service agents, through which it places a majority of its premiums, and we expect this trend to continue. Our inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to market our products effectively, we must continue to recruit, retain and establish relationships with qualified independent agents and brokers. We may not be able to recruit, retain and establish relationships with agents and brokers. Independent agents and brokers are typically not exclusively dedicated to us and may frequently also market our competitors’ managed care products. We face intense competition for the services and allegiance of independent agents and brokers. If such agents and brokers do not help us to maintain our current customer accounts or establish new accounts, our business and profitability could be adversely affected. Our investment portfolios are subject to varying economic and market conditions. We have exposure to market risk and credit risk in our investment activities. The fair values of our investments vary from time to time depending on economic and market conditions. Fixed maturity securities expose us to interest rate risk as well as credit risk. Equity securities expose us to equity price risk. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. These and other factors also affect the equity securities owned by us. The outlook of our investment portfolio depends on the future direction of interest rates, fluctuations in the equity securities market and in the amount of cash flows available for investment. For additional information, see ‘‘Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk’’ for an analysis of our exposure to interest and equity price risks and the procedures in place to manage these risks. Our investment portfolios may lose money in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries are subject to local laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain riskier investment categories, such as below-investment-grade fixed income securities, mortgage loans, and real estate and equity investments, amongst others, which could generate higher returns on our investments. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, any investments exceeding regulatory limitations would be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and risk-based capital. Page 37 Table of Contents The securities and credit markets recently have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, and other investments, our profitability and/or our financial position, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The global capital markets, including credit markets, have experienced extreme volatility. As an insurer, we have a substantial investment portfolio that is comprised particularly of debt securities of issuers located in the U.S. As a result, the income we earn from our investment portfolio is largely driven by the level of interest rates in the U.S, financial markets, and volatility, uncertainty and/or disruptions in the global capital markets, particularly the U.S. credit markets, and governments’ monetary policy, particularly the easing of U.S. monetary policy, can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our profitability and/or our financial position by: • Significantly reducing the value of the debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and creating net realized capital losses that reduces our operating results and/or net unrealized capital losses that reduce our shareholders’ equity. • Reducing interest rates on high quality short-term debt securities and thereby materially reducing our net investment income and operating results. • Making it more difficult to value certain of our investment securities, for example if trading becomes less frequent, which could lead to significant period-to-period changes in our estimates of the fair values of those securities and cause period-to-period volatility in our operating results and shareholders’ equity. • Reducing our ability to issue other securities. The volatility and disruption in the securities and credit markets has impacted our investment portfolio. We evaluate our investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. It also requires us to make certain assessments about the potential recovery of the assets we hold. For the purpose of determining gross realized gains and losses, the cost of investment securities is based upon specific identification. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we realized losses associated with other-than-temporary impairments of $7.1 million and $16.5 million, respectively. The gross unrealized losses of our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities were $14.9 million and $19.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The gross unrealized gains of our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities were $26.4 million and $27.2 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Given current market conditions, there is a continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or other-than-temporary impairments may be recorded in future periods. We believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements. However, continuing adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of credit. The geographic concentration of our business in Puerto Rico may subject us to economic downturns in the region. Substantially all of our business activity is with insureds located throughout Puerto Rico, and as such, we are subject to the risks associated with the Puerto Rico economy. The major factors affecting the economy are, among others, high oil prices, the slowdown of economic activity in the United States, the continuing economic uncertainty generated by the budgetary deficiency affecting the government of Puerto Rico and the effects on the economy of a recently implemented sales tax. The government of Puerto Rico government is currently facing a structural deficit between recurring government revenues and expenses. On March 9, 2009, the Governor signed the multi-year Fiscal Stabilization and Economic Reconstruction Plan, which provides for additional revenue generation measures, sets forth a cost reduction plan, including a reduction in public-sector employment, and provides for a number of financial initiatives geared towards achieving a balanced budget in four years. Since the government is an important source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. Page 38 Table of Contents If economic conditions in Puerto Rico continue to deteriorate, we may experience a reduction in existing and new business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and significant employees, and the loss of any one or more of these officers and their expertise could adversely affect our business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of our senior executives, each of whom has been instrumental in developing our business strategy and forging our business relationships. While we believe that we could find replacements, the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of our executive officers could adversely affect our business. Replacing many of our executive officers might be difficult or take an extended period of time because a limited number of individuals in the industries in which we operate have the breadth and depth of skills and experience necessary to operate and expand successfully a business such as ours. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance on any of our executive officers. The success of our business depends on developing and maintaining effective information systems. Our business and operations may be affected if we do not maintain and upgrade our information systems and the integrity of our proprietary information. We are materially dependent on our information systems for all aspects of our business operations, including monitoring utilization and other factors, supporting our managed care management techniques, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators, and our ability to compete depends on our ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. Malfunctions in our information systems, communication and energy disruptions, security breaches or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, alienate customers, contribute to customer and provider disputes, result in regulatory violations and possible liability, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. The use of member data by all of our businesses is regulated at federal and local levels. These laws and rules change frequently and developments require adjustments or modifications to our technology infrastructure. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. If we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses. We selected Quality Care Solutions, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Trizzetto, Inc, to assess and implement new core business applications for our managed care segment. We completed an initial assessment during 2007 and commenced the implementation of the new application in 2008. We expect our Managed Care segment to begin transitioning to the new application in 2010. The transitioning process is expected to continue into 2011, when we expect to complete the full migration. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these improvements in a timely manner or if these improvements do not meet our customers’ requirements, we may not be able to recoup these costs and expenses and effectively compete in our industry. Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other event or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security system and patient data stored in our information systems. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. The Internet is a public network and data is sent over this network from many sources. In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss. Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if they are not prevented. Page 39 Table of Contents We face risks related to litigation. In addition to the litigation risks discussed above in “—Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock”, we are, or may be in the future, a party to a variety of legal actions that affect any business, such as employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract actions, tort claims and intellectual property-related litigation. In addition, because of the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our business operations, including the design, management and offering of our products and services. These could include: • claims relating to the denial of managed care benefits; • medical malpractice actions; • allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; • provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; • disputes related to self-funded business; • disputes over co-payment calculations; • claims related to the failure to disclose certain business practices; • claims relating to customer audits and contract performance; and • claims by regulatory agencies or whistleblowers for regulatory non-compliance, including but not limited to fraud. We are a defendant in various lawsuits, some of which involve claims for substantial and/or indeterminate amounts and the outcome of which is unpredictable. While we are defending these suits vigorously, we will incur expenses in the defense of these suits. Any adverse judgment against us resulting in such damage awards could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Large-scale natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Puerto Rico has historically been at a relatively high risk of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes. If Puerto Rico were to experience a large-scale natural disaster, claims incurred by our managed care, property and casualty and life insurance segments would likely increase and our properties may incur substantial damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-financial covenants in our secured term loan and note purchase agreements may restrict our operations. We are a party to a secured loan with a commercial bank for an aggregate amount of $41.0 million, for which we had an outstanding balance of $22.7 million as of December 31, 2009. Also, we have an aggregate principal amount of $145.0 million of senior unsecured notes outstanding, consisting of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.30% notes due 2019, $60.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.60% notes due 2020 and $35.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.70% notes due 2021 (collectively, the notes). The secured term loan and the note purchase agreements governing the notes contain non-financial covenants that restrict, among other things, the granting of certain liens, limitations on acquisitions and limitations on changes in control. These non-financial covenants could restrict our operations. In addition, if we fail to make any required payment under our secured term loan or note purchase agreements governing the notes or to comply with any of the non-financial covenants included therein, we would be in default and the lenders or holders of our debt, as the case may be, could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our secured term loan or note purchase agreements to become immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest and, in the case of the secured term loan, cease to make further extensions of credit. If the indebtedness under our secured term loan or note purchase agreements is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or re-finance the amounts due and our business may be materially adversely affected. Page 40 Table of Contents We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Covenants related to such indebtedness could also adversely affect our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our debt service obligations may require us to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest and principal on debt instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to seek extraordinary dividends from our subsidiaries, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. However, these measures might be prohibited by applicable regulatory requirements or unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. Our breach or failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our secured term loan and note purchase agreements and the acceleration of amounts due thereunder. Indebtedness could also limit our ability to pursue desirable business opportunities, and may affect our ability to maintain an investment grade rating for our indebtedness. We may pursue acquisitions in the future. We may acquire additional companies if consistent with our strategic plan for growth. The following are some of the potential risks associated with acquisitions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • disruption of on-going business operations, distraction of management, diversion of resources and difficulty in maintaining current business standards, controls and procedures; • difficulty in integrating information technology of acquired entity and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • difficulty in the integration of the new company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resources and other administrative systems and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • difficulty in the implementation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for filers with the SEC at companies that prior to acquisition lacked such controls, policies and procedures; • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • dilutive issuances of equity securities and incurrence of additional debt to finance acquisitions; • other acquisition-related expenses, including amortization of intangible assets and write-offs; and • competition with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources, to acquire attractive companies. In addition, we may not successfully realize the intended benefits of any acquisition or investment. Risks Relating to Taxation If the Company is considered to be a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences. The Company does not expect that it will be considered a controlled foreign corporation under the related person insurance income rules (a “RPII CFC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, because RPII CFC status depends in part upon the correlation between an insurance company’s shareholders and such company’s insurance customers and the extent of such company’s insurance business outside its country of incorporation, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be a RPII CFC in any taxable year. The Company does not intend to monitor whether or not it generates RPII or becomes an RPII CFC. If the Company were a RPII CFC in any taxable year, certain adverse tax consequences could apply to U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock. Page 41 Table of Contents If the Company is considered to be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock could be subject to adverse tax consequences. The Company does not expect that it will be considered a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, since PFIC status depends upon the composition of a company’s income and assets and the market value of its assets (including, among others, less than 25 percent owned equity investments and the Company’s ability to use the proceeds from its initial public offering in a timely fashion) from time to time, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be considered a PFIC for any taxable year. The Company’s belief that it is not a PFIC is based, in part, on the fact that the PFIC rules include provisions intended to provide an exception for bona fide insurance companies predominately engaged in an insurance business. However, the scope of this exception is not entirely clear and there are no administrative pronouncements, judicial decisions or Treasury regulations that provide guidance as to the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies. If the Company were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, certain adverse consequences could apply to certain U.S. persons that own the Company’s shares of Class B common stock. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry Changes in governmental regulations, or the application thereof, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial Federal and local, regulation and frequent changes to the applicable legislative and regulatory schemes, including general business regulations and laws relating to taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, insurance, Medicre, Medicaid (Reform), and health care fraud and abuse laws. Please refer to “Item 1. Business — Regulation”. Changes in these laws, enactment of new laws or regulations, changes in interpretation of these laws or changes in enforcement of these laws and regulations may materially impact our business. Such changes include without limitation: • initiatives to provide greater access to coverage for uninsured and under-insured populations without adequate funding to health plan or to be funded through taxes or other negative financial levy on health plans; • payments to health plans that are tied to achievement of certain quality performance measures; • other efforts or specific legislative changes to the Medicare of Reform programs, including changes in the bidding process or other means of materially reducing premiums; • local government regulatory changes; • increased government enforcement of or changes in intermpretation or application of fraud and abuse laws; and • regulations that increase the operational burden on health plans or laws that increase a health plan’s exposure to liabilities, including efforts to expand the tort liability of health plans. Since early 2009, President Obama and various members of Congress have proposed varied legislation designed to reform aspects of the healthc are and insurance system in the United States. The initial health care reform proposal presented by President Obama attempted to address inceasing access to health care coverage, reducing the cost of care and improving the quality of care rendered. The health care reform plan proposal was to be financed in large part by reduced expenditures for the Medicare program. Consistent with President Obama’s plan proposal, Congress has previously supported financing health care reform by reducing Medicare Advantage funding. Throughout 2009, Congress debated various health reform proposals and held hearings on such proposals. At this time, no health reform proposals have been enacted into law nor does the passage into law of such a proposal appear imminent. Nevertheless, because of the unsettled nature of these proposals, the numerous steps to implement any proposal that may be enacted into law, and the possibility that some amount of the existing reform proposal efforts may be implemented through other means, such as CMS initiatives, that do not require authorizing legislation, we cannot predict the impact, if any, of such proposals on our business provide assurances that if any such proposal were to be enacted whether such proposal would or would not have a material impact on our business in the future. Regulations imposed by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, influence how our insurance subsidiaries conduct business and solicit subscriptions for shares of capital stock, and place limitations on Page 42 Table of Contents investments and dividends. Possible penalties for violations of such regulations include fines, orders to cease or change practices or behavior and possible suspension or termination of licenses. The regulatory powers of the Commissioner of Insurance are designed to protect policyholders, not shareholders. While we cannot predict the terms of future regulation, the enactment of new legislation could affect the cost or demand of insurance policies, limit our ability to obtain rate increases in those cases where rates are regulated, otherwise restrict our operations, limit the expansion of our business, expose us to expanded liability or impose additional compliance requirements. In addition, we may incur additional operating expenses in order to comply with new legislation and may be required to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. Future regulatory actions by the Commissioner of Insurance or other governmental agencies could have a material adverse effect on the profitability or marketability of our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to government audits or regulatory proceedings or investigative,actions, which may find that our policies, procedures, practices or contracts are not compliant with or found to be in violation of applicable healthcare regulations. Federal and Puerto Rico government authorities, including but not limited to the Commissioner of Insurance, ASES, CMS, the OIG, the Office of the Civil Rights of HHS, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the OPM, regularly make inquiries and conduct audits concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. We may also become the subject of non-routine regulatory or other investigations or proceedings brought by these or other authorities, and our compliance with and interpretation of applicable laws and regulations may be challenged. In addition, our regulatory compliance may also be challenged by private citizens under the “whistleblower provisions” of applicable laws. The defense of any such challenge could result in substantial cost, diversion of resorces, and a possible material adverse effect on our business. An adverse action could result in one or more of the following: • recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; • mandated changes in our business practices; • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key employees; • loss of our right to participate in Medicare, the Reform or other federal or local programs; damage to our reputation; • increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; • inability to obtain approval for future services or geographic expansions; and • loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurance company, preferred provider or managed care organization or other licensed entity or to otherwise provide a service. Our failure to maintain an effective corporate compliance program may increase our exposure to civil damages and penalties, criminal sanctions and administrative remedies, such as program exclusion, resulting from an adverse review. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could reduce our revenue and profitability and otherwise adversely affect our operating results. As a Medicare Advantage program participant, we are subject to complex regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be exposed to criminal sanctions and significant civil penalties, and our Medicare Advantage contracts may be terminated or our operations may be required to change in a manner that has a material impact on our business. The laws and regulations governing Medicare Advantage program participants are complex, subject to interpretation and can expose us to penalties for non-compliance. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to criminal fines, civil penalties or other sanctions, including the termination of our Medicare Advantage contracts. Page 43 Table of Contents The revised rate calculation system for Medicare Advantage and the payment system for the Medicare Part D established by the MMA could reduce our profitability. Effective January 1, 2006, a revised rate calculation system based on a competitive bidding process was instituted for Medicare Advantage managed care plans, including our Medicare Selecto and Medicare Optimo plans. The statutory payment rate was relabeled as the benchmark amount, and plans submit competitive bids that reflect the costs they expect to incur in providing the base Medicare benefits. If the accepted bid is less than the benchmark, Medicare pays the plan its bid plus a rebate of 75% of the amount by which the benchmark exceeds the bid. However, these rebates can only be used to enhance benefits or lower premiums and co-pays for plan members. If the bid is greater than the benchmark, the plan will be required to charge a premium to enrollees equal to the difference between the bid and the benchmark, which could affect our ability to attract enrollees. CMS reviews the methodology and assumptions used in bidding with respect to medical and administrative costs, profitability and other factors. CMS could challenge such methodology or assumptions or seek to cap or limit plan profitability. A number of legislative proposals as well as proposal offered by President Obama includes efforts to save federal funds by implementing significant rate reductions to Medicare Advantage plans by changes in the competitive bidding process, tying the country benchmarks to Medicare fee for service expenditures, or by other means. In addition, the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit payments to plans are determined through a competitive bidding process, and enrollee premiums also are tied to plan bids. The bids reflect the plan’s expected costs for a Medicare beneficiary of average health; CMS adjusts payments to plans based on enrollees’ health and other factors. The program is largely subsidized by the federal government and is additionally supported by risk-sharing between Medicare Part D plans and the federal government through risk corridors designed to limit the profits or losses of the drug plans and reinsurance for catastrophic drug costs. The government payment amount to plans is based on the national weighted average monthly bid for basic Part D coverage, adjusted for member demographics and risk factor payments. The beneficiary will be responsible for the difference between the government payment amount and his or her plan’s bid, together with the amount of his or her plan’s supplemental premium (before rebate allocations), subject to the co-pays, deductibles and late enrollment penalties, if applicable. Additional subsidies are provided for dual-eligible beneficiaries and specified low-income beneficiaries. Medicare also subsidizes 80% of drug spending above an enrollee’s catastrophic threshold. We face the risk of reduced or insufficient government funding and we may need to terminate our Medicare Advantage and/or Part D contracts with respect to unprofitable markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as a result of the competitive bidding process, our ability to participate in the Medicare Advantage and/or the Part D programs is affected by the pricing and design of our competitors’ bids. Moreover, we may in the future be required to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium in order to maintain our current level of profitability, either of which could make our health plans less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. CMS’s risk adjustment payment system and budget neutrality factors make our revenue and profitability difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments to our results of operations. CMS has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare Advantage plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for such plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS phased in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS for reconciliation with CMS’s internal database. As a result of this process, it is difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. In addition, our own risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the payments we receive from CMS and our Medicare payment revenue. There can be no assurance that our contracting physicians and hospitals will be successful in improving the accuracy of recording diagnosis code information, which has an impact on our risk scores. Payments to Medicare Advantage plans are also adjusted by a “budget neutrality” factor that was implemented in 2003 by Congress and CMS to prevent health plan payments from being reduced overall while, at the same time, directing risk adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment has Page 44 Table of Contents favorably impacted payments to all Medicare Advantage plans. However, this adjustment is schedule to be gradually being phased out by 2011. Furthermore, MedPac continues to recommend that Congress enact legislation that reduces Medicare Advantage payment to equalize payments for services made through Medicare Advantage plans and the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Congress has not enacted legislation that contains the MedPac recommendations. However, we cannot provide assurance if, when or to what degree Congress may enact legislation including the MedPac recommendations, but any reduction in Medicare Advantage rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. If during the open enrollment season our Medicare Advantage members enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan, they will be automatically disenrolled from our plan, possibly without our immediate knowledge. Pursuant to the MMA, members enrolled in one insurer’s Medicare Advantage program will be automatically unenrolled from that program if they enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program. If our members enroll in another insurer’s Medicare Advantage program during the open enrollment season, we may not discover that such member has been unenrolled from our program until such time as we fail to receive reimbursement from the CMS in respect of such member, which may occur several months after the end of the open season. As a result, we may discover that a member has unenrolled from our program after we have already provided services to such individual. Our profitability would be reduced as a result of such failure to receive payment from CMS if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from them. If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences. We are subject to change of control statutes applicable to insurance companies. These statutes regulate, among other things, the acquisition of control of an insurance company or a holding company of an insurance company. Under these statutes, no person may make an offer to acquire or to sell the issued and outstanding voting stock of an insurance company, which constitutes 10% or more of the issued and outstanding stock of an insurance company, or of the total stock issued and outstanding of a holding company of an insurance company, or solicit or receive funds in exchange for the issuance of new shares of our or our insurance subsidiaries’ capital stock, without the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation (the articles) prohibit any institutional investor from owning 10% or more of our voting power and any person that is not an institutional investor from owning 5% or more of our voting power. We cannot, however, assure you that ownership of our securities will remain below these thresholds. To the extent that a person, including an institutional investor, acquires shares in excess of these limits, our articles provide that we will have the power to take certain actions, including refusing to give effect to a transfer or instituting proceedings to enjoin or rescind a transfer, in order to avoid a violation of the ownership limitation in the articles. If the Commissioner of Insurance determines that a change of control has occurred, we could be subject to fines and penalties, and in some instances the Commissioner of Insurance would have the discretion to revoke our operating licenses. We are also subject to change of control limitations pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. The BCBSA ownership limits restrict beneficial ownership of our voting capital stock to less than 10% for an institutional investor and less than 5% for a non-institutional investor, both as defined in our articles. In addition, no person may beneficially own shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or a combination thereof, representing a 20% or more ownership interest, whether voting or non-voting, in our company. This provision in our articles cannot be changed without the prior approval of the BCBSA and the vote of holders of at least 75% of our common stock. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital requirements. Our failure to meet these standards could subject us to regulatory actions. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance, among other things, require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital, thereby restricting the amount of earnings that can be distributed by our insurance subsidiaries to us. Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply in the future. Failure to maintain required levels of capital or to otherwise comply with the reporting requirements of the Commissioner of Insurance could subject our insurance subsidiaries to corrective action, including government supervision or liquidation, or require Page 45 Table of Contents us to provide financial assistance, either through subordinated loans or capital infusions, to our subsidiaries to ensure they maintain their minimum statutory capital requirements. We are also subject to minimum capital requirements pursuant to our BCBSA license agreements. See “Risks Related to Our Business — The termination or modification of our license agreements to use the BCBS name and mark could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information. Certain implementing regulations of HIPAA require us to comply with standards regarding the formats for electronic transmission, and the privacy and security of certain health information within our company and with third parties, such as managed care providers, business associates and our members. While we have agreements in place with our business associates we have limited control over their operations regarding the privacy and security of protected heath information. The HIPAA regulations also provide access rights and other rights for health plan beneficiaries with respect to their health information. These regulations include standards for certain electronic transactions, including encounter and claims information, health plan eligibility and payment information. Compliance with HIPAA is enforced by HHS’s Office for Civil Rights for privacy, CMS for security and electronic transactions, and by the U.S. Department of Justice for criminal violations, and by States Attorneys General once the HIPAA amendments under the Stimulus are implemented. Further, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act imposes certain privacy and security requirements on insurers that may apply to certain aspects of our business as well. We continue to implement and revise our health information policies and procedures to monitor and ensure our compliance with these laws and regulations, including the HIPAA amendments under the Stimulus. Furthermore, Puerto Rico’s ability to promulgate its own laws and regulations (including those issued in response to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), such as Act No. 194 of August 25, 2000, also known as the Patient’s Rights and Responsibilities Act, including those more stringent than HIPAA, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult. For these reasons, our total compliance costs may increase in the future. Puerto Rico insurance laws and regulations and provisions of our articles and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests and may make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and have the effect of entrenching management. Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and our articles and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our license agreements with the BCBSA require that our articles contain certain provisions, including ownership limitations. See “Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry — If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.”. Other provisions included in our articles and bylaws may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. In particular, our articles and bylaws: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; • divide our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • limit the ability of shareholders to remove directors; • impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at meetings of shareholders; and • impose restrictions on shareholders’ ability to amend our articles and bylaws. Page 46 Table of Contents See also “Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry — If we are deemed to have violated the insurance company change of control statutes in Puerto Rico, we may suffer adverse consequences.” Puerto Rico insurance laws and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance may also delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, the Commissioner of Insurance must review any merger, consolidation or new issue of shares of capital stock of an insurer or its parent company and make a determination as to the fairness of the transaction. Also, a director of an insurer must meet certain requirements imposed by Puerto Rico insurance laws. These voting and other restrictions may operate to make it more difficult to replace members of our board of directors and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 