ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS We are implementing a new business plan. We have recently discontinued our former business model involving the development of retail golf stores, and adopted a new model involving the development of non-asset based third-party logistics services. We have only recently completed our platform acquisition under our new business model. As a result, we have a very limited operating history under our current business model. Even though we are being managed by senior executives with significant experience in the industry, our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict trends that may affect our business and the longer-term success of our business model. Our present levels of capital may limit the implementation of our business strategy. The objective of our business strategy is to build a global logistics services organization. Critical to this strategy is an aggressive acquisition program which will require the acquisition of a number of diverse companies within the logistics industry covering a variety of geographic regions and specialized service -8- Back to Table of Contents offerings. As a result of our recently completed acquisition of Airgroup, we have a limited amount of cash resources and our ability to make additional acquisitions without securing additional financing from outside sources will be limited. This may limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. Risks related to acquisition financing. In order to pursue our acquisition strategy in the longer term, we will require additional financing. We intend to obtain such financing through a combination of traditional debt financing or the placement of debt and equity securities. We may finance some portion of our future acquisitions by either issuing equity or by using shares of our common stock for all or a substantial portion of the purchase price for such businesses. In the event that our common stock does not attain or maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept common stock as part of the purchase price for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to utilize more of our cash resources, if available, in order to maintain our acquisition program. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, we will not be able to complete acquisitions and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. We have used a significant amount of our available capital to finance the acquisition of Airgroup. We expect to structure our acquisitions with certain amounts paid at closing, and the balance paid over a number of years in the form of earn-out installments which would be payable based upon the future earnings of the acquired businesses payable in cash, Company stock or some combination thereof. As we execute our acquisition strategy, we expect that we will be required to make significant payments in the future if the earn-out installments under prospective acquisitions become due. While we believe that a portion of any required cash payments will be generated by the acquired businesses, we may have to secure additional sources of capital to fund the remainder of any cash-based earn-out payments as they become due. This presents us with certain business risks relative to the availability of capacity under our existing credit facility, the availability and pricing of future fund raising, as well as the potential dilution to our stockholders to the extent the earn-outs are satisfied directly or indirectly from the sale of equity. Our credit facility places certain limits on the type and number of acquisitions we may make. We have obtained a $10 million credit facility from Bank of America, N.A. to provide additional funding for acquisitions and for our on-going working capital requirements. Under the terms of the credit facility, we are subject to a number of financial and operational covenants which may limit the number of additional acquisitions we make without the lender’s consent. In the event that we were not able to satisfy the conditions of the credit facility in connection with a proposed acquisition, we would have to forego the acquisition unless we either obtained the lender’s consent or retired the credit facility. This may prevent us from completing acquisitions which we determine are desirable from a business perspective and limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that may limit its current availability. The terms of our credit facility are subject to certain financial covenants which may limit the amount otherwise available under that facility. Principal among these are financial covenants that limit funded debt to a multiple of our consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or “EBITDA”. Under this covenant, our funded debt is limited to a multiple of 3.25 of our EBITDA measured on a rolling four quarter basis. Our ability to generate EBITDA will be critical to our ability to use the full amount of the credit facility. Due to our acquisition strategy, our earnings will be adversely affected by non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangibles which may cause our stock price to decline. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified acquired assets and liabilities based on their fair values at the time of -9- Back to Table of Contents acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible assets acquired must be allocated among identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The amount allocated to identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships and the like, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. We expect that this will subject us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because our business strategy focuses on growth through acquisitions, our future earnings will be subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings are derived organically. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. Based on our financial statements, this will create an appearance that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, when in fact they may be increasing because we are growing the value of our intangible assets (e.g. customer relationships). Because of this discrepancy, we believe our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, otherwise known as “EBITDA”, a non GAAP measure of financial performance, provides a meaningful measure of our financial performance. However, the investment community generally measures a public company’s performance by its net income. Further, the financial covenants of our credit facility adjust EBITDA to exclude costs related to share based compensation and other non-cash charges. Thus, we believe EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA, provide a meaningful measure of our financial performance. If the investment community elects to place more emphasis on net income, the future price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are not obligated to follow any particular criteria or standards for identifying acquisition candidates. Even though we have developed general acquisition guidelines, we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will target companies which we believe will provide the best potential long-term financial return for our stockholders and we will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions. Our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our management team will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction. There is a scarcity of and competition for acquisition opportunities. There are a limited number of operating companies available for acquisition which we deem to be desirable targets. In addition, there is a very high level of competition among companies seeking to acquire these operating companies. We are and will continue to be a very minor participant in the business of seeking acquisitions of these types of companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities are active in acquiring interests in companies which we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us. Consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible acquisitions of these businesses. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these entities, this competition may affect the terms of completed transactions and, as a result, we may pay more than we expected for potential acquisitions. We may not be able to identify operating companies that complement our strategy, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategy, we may be unable to complete an acquisition of such a company for many reasons, including: · a failure to agree on the terms necessary for a transaction, such as the amount of the purchase price; · incompatibility between our operational strategies and management philosophies and those of the potential acquiree; · competition from other acquirers of operating companies; · a lack of sufficient capital to acquire a profitable logistics company; and · the unwillingness of a potential acquiree to work with our management. If we are unable to successfully compete with other entities in identifying and executing possible acquisitions of companies we target, then we will not be able to successfully implement our business plan. -10- Back to Table of Contents We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to complete future acquisitions. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from the operations of acquired companies to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on the indebtedness, then we will be required to use our capital for such payments. This will restrict our ability to make additional acquisitions. We may also be forced to sell an acquired company in order to satisfy indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably once we incur this indebtedness or that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of proceeds from the ultimate disposition of such acquired companies to repay the indebtedness incurred to make these acquisitions. Risks related to our acquisition strategy. We intend to continue to build our business through a combination of organic growth, and to a greater extent, through additional acquisitions. Growth by acquisitions involve a number of risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management resources, failure to retain key personnel, and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on key personnel. For the foreseeable future our success will depend largely on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, as well as certain of the other key executives of Airgroup, because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with major vendors and owners of our exclusive agent stations. We have secured employment arrangements with each of these individuals, which contain non-competition covenants which survive their actual term of employment. Nevertheless, should any of these individuals leave the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. We may experience difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and assets of companies that we acquire which may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. A core component of our business plan is to acquire businesses and assets in the transportation and logistics industry. We have only made one such acquisition and, therefore, our ability to complete such acquisitions and integrate any acquired businesses into our Company is unproven. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may develop, in which event there may be fewer acquisition opportunities available to us as well as higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Such acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; · the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · the risk of entering new markets; · the potential loss of key employees; and · the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute any acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. -11- Back to Table of Contents We are largely dependent on the efforts of our exclusive agents to generate our revenue and service our customers. We currently sell principally all of our services through a network of 35 exclusive agent stations located throughout North America. Although we have exclusive and long-term relationships with these agents, the agency agreements are terminable by either party on 10-day’s notice. Although we have no customers that account for more than 5% of our revenues, there are four agency locations that each account for more than 5% of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these exclusive agents could negatively impact our ability to retain and service our customers. We will need to expand our existing relationships and enter into new relationships in order to increase our current and future market share and revenue. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, or that any new relationships will be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, we may lose customers, customer introductions and co-marketing benefits and our operating results may suffer. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, although the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of freight forwarding and supply chain management services is more limited. Depending on the location of the customer and the scope of services requested, we must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. In addition, customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger, global companies in our industry. There currently is a marked trend within our industry toward consolidation of the niche players into larger companies which are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry with global operations. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover of our Company more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested stockholder”) for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding shares and that amendments to our bylaws require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting. -12- Back to Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Trading in our common stock has been limited and there is no significant trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently eligible to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, however, trading to date has been limited. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board is often characterized by low trading volume and significant price fluctuations. Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements, general conditions in the industry, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We completed the private placement of approximately 15.4 million shares of our common stock between October 2005 and February 2006. Our prospectus, dated June 22, 2006, covers the public resale of 14,847,461 of these shares which were declared effective June 22, 2006. The availability of those shares for sale to the public and sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at prices which we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions which will make it more difficult to execute our acquisition strategy. Our acquisition strategy may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. We will require additional financing to fund our acquisition strategy. At some point this may entail the issuance of additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents, which would have the effect of further increasing the number of shares outstanding. In connection with future acquisitions, we may undertake the issuance of more shares of common stock without notice to our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares in order to, among other things, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons in the discretion of our Board of Directors, and could result in diluting the interests of our existing stockholders. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Although we have no current plans or agreements to issue any preferred stock, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms for those shares without the approval of our shareholders. Any such preferred stock we may issue in the future could rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, and voting rights. As we do not anticipate paying dividends, investors in our shares will not receive any dividend income. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any dividends that we may pay in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our future earnings, any applicable regulatory considerations, covenants of our debt facility, our financial requirements and other similarly unpredictable factors. For the foreseeable future, we anticipate that we will retain any earnings which we may generate from our operations to finance and develop our growth and that we will not pay cash dividends to our stockholders. Accordingly, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our stock. We are not subject to certain of the corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Since our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, we are not subject to certain of the corporate governance requirements established by the national securities exchanges pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These include rules relating to independent directors, and independent -13- Back to Table of Contents director nomination, audit and compensation committees. Unless we voluntarily elect to comply with those obligations, investors in our shares will not have the protections offered by those corporate governance provisions. As of the date of this report, we have not elected to comply with any regulations that do not apply to us. While we may make an application to have our securities listed for trading on a national securities exchange, which would require us to comply with those obligations, we can not assure that we will do so or that such application will be approved. ITEM 