ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The future trading price of shares of our common stock will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. Risks Related to our Business We are largely dependent on the efforts of independent agents to generate our revenue and service our customers. We currently sell our services through some Company-owned locations and through a network predominantly represented by independently-owned agent offices that operate under our brands located throughout North America. We have recently opened additional Company-owned locations. However, substantially more than a majority of our consolidated revenues are derived through our independent agent offices and we believe independent agent relationships will remain important to our success. Our agreements with independent agents provide our agents with benefits such as increased cash flow, back office and technology support, license to use our brands, vendor rates that are likely better than those available to the independent agent on its own, a global network of other agents able to assist in providing broad freight solutions. These agreements provide us with certain protections such as an agent-funded reserve for bad debt, indemnification and often a personal guaranty. We have long-term relationships with many of our agents, with automatic renewal of most of our contracts. While at times agency contracts technically expire, we continue to work with the agency location to renew the contract while continuing to operate pursuant to the most recent written terms of the agreements. As we renew expired contracts, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to enter into new agreements that provide for the same terms as those previously agreed. While we have no customers or agency locations that separately account for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, we do have a number of customers and agency locations with significant volume and stature, the loss of one or more of which could negatively impact our ability to retain and service our customers. We will need to expand our existing relationships and enter into new relationships in order to increase our current and future market share and revenue. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain and expand our existing relationships or enter into new relationships, or that new or renewed relationships will be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing relationships, renew existing relationships, or enter into new relationships, we may lose customers, customer introductions and co-marketing benefits and our operating results may suffer. If our independent agent offices fail to maintain adequate reserves against unpaid customer invoices, or if we are unable to offset against amounts payable by us to our independent agent offices for unpaid customer invoices, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue pursuant to agency agreements with independently-owned agent offices operating under our various brands. Each individual agent office is responsible for some or all of the bad debt expense related to the underlying customers being serviced by the office. To facilitate this arrangement, each office is required to maintain a security deposit with us that is recognized as a liability in our financial statements and used as a bad debt reserve for each location. We charge each individual office’s bad debt reserve account for any accounts receivable aged beyond 90 days. The bad debt reserve account is continually replenished with a portion (typically 5%-10%) of such office’s weekly commission check being directed to fund 9 Table of Contents this account. However, the bad debt reserve account may carry a deficit balance when amounts charged to this reserve exceed amounts otherwise available in the bad debt reserve account. In these circumstances, deficit bad debt reserve accounts are recognized as a receivable in our financial statements. Further, the agency agreements provide that we may withhold all or a portion of future commission checks payable to the individual office in satisfaction of any deficit balance. Currently, a number of our agency offices have a deficit balance in their bad debt reserve account totaling approximately $600k with one agency office representing approximately $450k. We expect to replenish these funds through the future business operations of these offices. However, to the extent any of these offices were to cease operations or otherwise be unable to replenish these deficit accounts, we would be at risk of loss for any such amount. We are currently involved in collection proceedings against two customers who owe us approximately $1.1 million. We have expensed our portion of these amounts. While there can be no assurance as to the amount that may be recovered in the future, based upon, among others: (i) our historic collection experience; (ii) the portion of the bad debt recoverable from the individual agency location responsible for the account; and (iii) the anticipated recovery likely from these customers; we do not believe its exposure to these customers will be material. Failure to comply with obligations as an “indirect carrier” could result in penalties and fines and limit our ability to ship freight. We are regulated, among other things, as “indirect air carriers” by the Transportation Security Administration of the Department of Homeland Security. These agencies provide requirements, guidance and, in some cases, administer licensing requirements and processes applicable to the freight forwarding industry. We actively monitor our compliance with such agency requirements to ensure that we and our independent agents satisfactorily complete applicable security requirements and satisfy applicable qualifications and implement the required policies and procedures. These agencies generally require companies to fulfill these qualifications prior to and while operating as a freight forwarder. Failure to comply with such requirements, policies and procedures could result in penalties and fines. To date, a limited number of our independent agents have been out of compliance with the “indirect air carrier” regulations, resulting in small fines. While we are working with our independent agents to eliminate any additional violations, there is no assurance that additional violations will not take place, which could result in penalties or fines or, in the extreme case, limits on our ability to ship freight. If we fail to develop and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our agents and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may suffer a loss in our business. Increasingly, we compete for business based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site or connect electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent clients from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or clients. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels and operating efficiency will decline. In addition, we expect our agents to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from us as customers demand the same from their supply chain services providers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our agents and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, our business may be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are subject to risks we cannot control. Our information technology systems are dependent upon third party communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, 10 Table of Contents telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, and our ability to provide services to our customers. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services for our clients could be adversely impacted by: shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability depends on our ability to effectively manage our cost structure as we grow the business. As we continue to increase our revenue through the expansion of our network of independent agency locations, we must maintain an appropriate cost structure to maintain and increase our profitability. While we intend to increase our revenue by increasing the number and quality of our agency relationships, by strategic acquisitions, and by maintaining and expanding our gross profit margins by reducing transportation costs, our profitability will be driven by our ability to manage our agent commissions, personnel and general and administrative costs as a function of our net revenues. There can be no assurances that we will be able to increase revenues or maintain profitability. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand which can sometimes be difficult to predict or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, our revenue is, to a large degree, affected by factors that are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to economic trends and consumer demand that can be difficult to predict, or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. 11 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations soliciting bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry. There currently is a trend within our industry toward consolidation of the niche players into larger companies that are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry with global operations. If we are not able to limit our liability for customers’ claims through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or International Conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods to $20 per kilogram (approximately $9.07 per pound) and $500 per carton or customary unit, for ocean freight shipments, depending on the International Convention. For truck/land based risks, there are a variety of limits ranging from a nominal amount to full value. However, because a freight forwarder relationship to an airline or ocean carrier is that of a shipper to a carrier, the airline or ocean carrier generally assumes the same responsibility to us as we assume to our clients. When we act in the capacity of an authorized agent for an air or ocean carrier, the carrier, rather than us, assumes liability for the safe delivery of the client’s cargo to its ultimate destination, unless due to our own errors and omissions. We have, from time to time, made payments to our clients for claims related to our services and may make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, there are limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or even disputed and such claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. Our failure to comply with, or the costs of complying with, government regulation could negatively affect our results of operation. Our business is subject to heavy, evolving, complex and increasing regulation by national and international sources. Regulatory changes could affect the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to customers. Future regulation and our failure to comply with any applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the Radiant brand and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other freight-forwarding companies. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. 12 Table of Contents Our Bank of America credit facility and our Caltius mezzanine subordinated notes contain financial covenants that may limit current availability and impose ongoing operational limitations and risk of compliance. We currently maintain a $30.0 million revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (“BofA”), which includes a $2.0 million sublimit to support letters of credit (collectively, the “Credit Facility”). Under the terms of the Credit Facility, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0 in the event that availability is less than $5.0 million or an Event of Default was to occur. In connection with our acquisition of the assets and operations of ISLA International, Ltd. in December 2011, we entered into an Investment Agreement (the “Investment Agreement”) with Caltius Partners IV, LP and Caltius Partners Executive IV, LP (collectively, “Caltius”) pursuant to which we borrowed $10.0 million in exchange for a series of Senior Subordinated Notes (the “Caltius Financing”). Under the Caltius Financing, we are subject to certain financial covenants, including funded leverage ratio covenants, senior funded leverage ratio covenants and fixed charges ratio covenants. In addition, we are subject to significant restrictions, unless otherwise waived by Caltius, upon prepayment and penalties if we prepay the outstanding indebtedness during the three year period after the Caltius Financing. Further, Caltius has the right, under certain circumstances, to require us to redeem all shares of our common stock issued to Caltius in connection with the Caltius Financing at the then fair market value of such shares. The Caltius Financing also constrains our ability to obtain additional financing unless we obtain Caltius’s consent. The Caltius Financing also places restrictions on our ability to enter into future financings and acquisitions. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under the Caltius Financing, we may be required to, among other things, immediately repay all outstanding principal and interest under the Caltius Financing, redeem all shares issued to Caltius in connection with the Caltius Financing, and forego future financing and acquisition opportunities. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on key personnel. For the foreseeable future, our success will depend largely on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, as well as certain of the other key executives because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with major vendors and agent office owners. We have secured employment arrangements with each of these individuals, which contain non-competition covenants that survive their actual term of employment. Nevertheless, should any of these individuals leave the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect our operations and our profitability. Terrorist acts or acts of war or armed conflict, both foreign and domestic, could negatively affect our operations in a number of ways. Primarily, any of these acts could result in increased volatility in or damage to the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy and could lead to increased regulatory requirements with respect to the security and safety of freight shipments and transportation. Acts of terrorism or armed conflict, and the 13 Table of Contents uncertainty caused by such conflicts, could cause an overall reduction in worldwide sales of goods and corresponding shipments of goods. This would have a corresponding negative effect on our operations. We intend to continue growing our international operations and will become increasingly subject to variations in the international trade market. We provide services to customers engaged in international commerce, and intend to grow our international business in the coming years. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract our international business and impact our operating results. For example, international trade is influenced by: • currency exchange rates and currency control regulations; • interest rate fluctuations; • changes in governmental policies, such as taxation, quota restrictions, other forms of trade barriers and/or restrictions and trade accords; • changes in and application of international and domestic customs, trade and security regulations; • wars, strikes, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; • natural disasters and pandemics; • changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; • changes in availability of credit; • changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products; and • increased global concerns regarding environmental sustainability. If any of the foregoing factors have a negative effect on the international trade market, we will likely suffer a decrease in our international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our international business, we are subject to certain foreign regulatory requirements, and any failure to comply with these requirement could be detrimental to our business. We provide services in parts of the world where common business practices could constitute violations of the anti-corruption laws, rules, regulations and decrees of the United States, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and of all other countries in which we conduct business; as well as trade control laws, or laws, regulations and Executive Orders imposing embargoes and sanctions; and anti-boycott laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and decrees is dependent on our employees, subcontractors, consultants, agents, third party brokers and customers, whose individual actions could violate these laws, rules, regulations and decrees. Failure to comply could result in substantial penalties, damages to our reputation and restrictions on our ability to conduct business. In addition, any investigation or litigation related to such violations may require significant management time and could cause us to incur extensive legal and related costs, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flows. Risks Related to our Acquisition Strategy There is a scarcity of and competition for acquisition opportunities. There are a limited number of operating companies available for acquisition that we deem to be desirable targets. In addition, there is a very high level of competition among companies seeking to acquire these operating 14 Table of Contents companies. We are and will continue to be a very minor participant in the business of seeking acquisitions of these types of companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities are active in acquiring interests in companies that we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us. Consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible acquisitions of these businesses. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these entities, this competition may affect the terms of completed transactions and, as a result, we may pay more than we expected for potential acquisitions. We may not be able to identify operating companies that complement our strategy, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategy, we may be unable to complete an acquisition of such a company for many reasons, including: • failure to agree on the terms necessary for a transaction, such as the purchase price; • incompatibility between our operational strategies or management philosophies with those of the potential acquiree; • competition from other acquirers of operating companies; • lack of sufficient capital to acquire a profitable logistics company; • unwillingness of a potential acquiree to agree to subordinate any future payment of earn-outs or promissory notes to the payments due to our lenders; and • unwillingness of a potential acquiree to work with our management. Risks related to acquisition financing. We have a limited amount of financial resources and our ability to make additional acquisitions without securing additional financing from outside sources is limited. In order to continue to pursue our acquisition strategy, we may be required to obtain additional financing. We intend to obtain such financing through a combination of traditional debt financing or the placement of debt and equity securities. We may finance some portion of our future acquisitions by either issuing equity or by using shares of our common stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for such businesses. In the event that our common stock does not attain or maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the purchase price for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to maintain our acquisition program. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, we will not be able to complete acquisitions and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. The terms of our Credit Facility and Caltius Financing each require that we obtain their consent prior to securing additional debt financing. There could be circumstances in which our ability to obtain additional debt financing could be constrained if we are unable to secure the consent of each of BofA and Caltius. Our Bank of America Credit Facility places certain limits on the acquisitions we may make. Under the terms of our Credit Facility, we may be required to obtain BofA’s consent prior to making any additional acquisitions. We are permitted to make additional acquisitions without the consent of BofA only if certain conditions are satisfied. The conditions imposed by the Credit Facility include the following: (i) the absence of an event of default under the Credit Facility; (ii) the acquisition is consensual; (iii) the company to be acquired must be in the transportation and logistics industry, located in the United States or certain other approved jurisdictions, and have a positive EBITDA for the 12 month period most recently ended prior to such acquisitions; (iv) no debt or liens may be incurred, assumed or result from the acquisition, subject to limited exceptions; and (v) after giving effect for the funding of the acquisition, we must have undrawn availability under the Credit Facility of at least the greater of 20% of the borrowing base or $5,000,000. 15 Table of Contents In the event we are not able to satisfy the conditions of the Credit Facility in connection with a proposed acquisition, we must either forego the acquisition, obtain BofA’s consent, or retire the Credit Facility. This may prevent us from completing acquisitions that we determine are desirable from a business perspective and limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. The Caltius Financing requires us to meet certain financial covenants and subjects us to restrictions on future financings and acquisitions. The Caltius Financing also places restrictions on our ability to enter into future financings and acquisitions. We are permitted to make additional acquisitions only if certain conditions are satisfied, including the following: (i) the acquisition constitutes a business reasonably related to our then current business; (ii) no default or event of default shall exist prior to or will be caused as a result of such acquisition; (iii) Caltius has been provided with prior written notice of such acquisition, such notice to include (a) a description of the property or equity interests to be purchased; (b) the price and terms of such acquisition; (c) a certificate of a financial officer, certifying as to certain information requested in the Investment Agreement; and (d) such other information with respect thereto as is reasonably requested by Caltius; (iv) in the event of an acquisition of equity interests of a company, such company shall become a wholly-owned subsidiary; (v) the target company shall have as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter of such company ending on or immediately prior to the date of such acquisition actual (or pro forma to the extent approved in writing by Caltius) EBITDA and net income greater than $1, in each case for the 12 month period ending on such date; (vi) the aggregate cash consideration payable at the closing of the acquisition shall not exceed $7.5 million for any single transaction and $12.5 million in the aggregate in any fiscal year or such other amount approved in writing by the Caltius; provided, however, that (a) the foregoing limitation shall exclude cash consideration derived from the proceeds of sales of our equity interests issued during the nine-month period prior to the closing of such acquisition to the extent we notify Caltius in writing of the use of such cash consideration from sales such equity interests in such transaction or transactions and (b) the written consent of Caltius shall be required if the aggregate cash consideration payable at the closing of such transaction is equal to or greater than $25 million; (vii) the post-closing availability under the Credit Facility is at least $4.0 million on a pro forma basis; (viii) the number of permitted acquisitions that we and our co-borrowers have completed in such fiscal year does not exceed three; (ix) any future acquisition consideration in the form of earn-out payments and/or payments under promissory notes is expressly subordinated to any future amounts due and owing to Caltius; and (x) we shall have provided to Caltius certain deliverables for such acquisition. We or our subsidiaries may, however, acquire at least 51% of the equity of another entity (“Permitted Investment”) so long as (i) the aggregate consideration for all such Permitted Investments does not exceed $1.0 million; (ii) we (or our subsidiary, as applicable) control and own at least 51% of the acquired entity; and (iii) we (or our subsidiary, as applicable) comply with all of the requirements of the preceding paragraph, other than the requirements set forth in sections (iv) and (vi). If we are unable to satisfy our obligations under the Caltius Financing, we may be required to, among other things, immediately repay all outstanding principal and interest under the Caltius Financing, redeem all shares issued to Caltius in connection with the Caltius Financing, and forego future financing and acquisition opportunities. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we make any material acquisitions, our earnings will be adversely affected by non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangibles, which may cause our stock price to decline. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified acquired assets and liabilities based on their fair values at the time of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible assets acquired must be allocated among identifiable intangible assets including goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The 16 Table of Contents amount allocated to identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships and the like, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. We expect that this will subject us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because our business strategy focuses, in part, on growth through acquisitions, our future earnings will be subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings are derived solely from organic growth. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. Our financial statements will show that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, when, in fact, we believe they may be increasing because we are growing the value of our intangible assets (e.g. customer relationships). Because of this discrepancy, we believe our EBITDA, a measure of financial performance that does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), provides a meaningful measure of our financial performance. However, the investment community generally measures a public company’s performance by its net income. Further, the financial covenants of our Credit Facility adjust EBITDA to exclude costs related to share based compensation and other non-cash charges. Thus, we believe EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA, provide a meaningful measure of our financial performance. If the investment community elects to place more emphasis on net income, the future price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We are not obligated to follow any particular criteria or standards for identifying acquisition candidates. Even though we have developed general acquisition guidelines, other than as required under the Credit Facility or Caltius Financing, we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will target businesses that we believe will provide the best potential long-term financial return for our stockholders and we will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions. Our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our management team will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. Subject to the restrictions contained in the Credit Facility and Investment Agreement with Caltius, we may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to complete future acquisitions. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from the operations of acquired businesses to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on the indebtedness, then we will be required to use our capital for such payments. This will restrict our ability to make additional acquisitions. We may also be forced to sell an acquired business in order to satisfy indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably once we incur this indebtedness or that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of proceeds from the ultimate disposition of such acquired businesses to repay the indebtedness incurred to make these acquisitions. We may experience difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and assets of acquired businesses that may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. A core component of our business plan is to acquire businesses and assets in the transportation and logistics industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Such acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including: • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the risk of entering new markets; • the potential loss of existing or acquired agency locations following an acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees following an acquisition and the associated risk of competitive efforts from such departed personnel; 17 Table of Contents • possible legal disputes with the acquired company following an acquisition; and • the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute any acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Legal dispute emanating from recent acquisition of DBA. In December 2012, we recovered an award in arbitration against the former shareholders of DBA. The award arose out of a prior arbitration action against the former shareholders of DBA in which we asserted, among others, certain claims for indemnification under the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “DBA Agreement”) dated March 29, 2011, based upon breaches that we believe occurred under the DBA Agreement. These breaches included, among others, the breach of certain non-competition and non-solicitation covenants by Paul Pollara, one of the DBA selling shareholders, and Bretta Santini Pollara, a former DBA employee and wife of Mr. Pollara. In a related matter, in December 2011, Ms. Pollara filed a claim for declaratory relief against us seeking an order stipulating that she is not bound by the non-compete covenant contained within the DBA Agreement signed by her husband, Mr. Pollara. On January 23, 2012, we filed a counterclaim against Ms. Pollara, her company Santini Productions, Daniel Reffner (a former employee of the Company now working for Ms. Pollara), and Oceanair, Inc. (a company doing business with Santini Productions). Our counterclaim alleges claims for statutory and common law misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of duty of loyalty, and unfair competition, and seeks damages in excess of $500,000. Following certain procedural motions, two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, DBA and RGL, intervened and filed a Second Amendment Counterclaim in the lawsuit. After further procedural matters were addressed, the claims that remain at issue are: (1) DBA’s statutory trade secret misappropriation claim against Ms. Pollara, Santini Productions, and Oceanair; (2) RGL’s and DBA’s claims for interference with contractual relations against Oceanair; and (3) RGL’s and DBA’s claim for inducement to breach contract against Oceanair. The parties are awaiting a trial date. Although the ultimate resolution of this dispute will not likely occur in the near-term, we believe that these breaches will not have any meaningful long-term adverse effect on our overall results of operations given our: (i) efforts to retain existing customers; (ii) restructuring of our Los Angeles operations; and (iii) efforts through a civil proceeding to recover damages and assert legal remedies against Ms. Pollara and her co-defendants who we believe breached certain non-competition and non-solicitation obligations to us. Nevertheless, near-term earnings could be negatively impacted if our efforts to retain existing customers are not successful, and as a result of any legal expenses incurred in connection with the matter. Risks Related to our Common Stock Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (“DGCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested stockholder”) for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding shares and that amendments to our bylaws require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, 18 Table of Contents merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting. Trading in our common stock has been limited and there is no significant trading market for our common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT, it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded.” Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements, general conditions in the industry and the financial markets, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We have completed several acquisitions which often include the issuance of additional shares pursuant to the purchase agreements. We issued approximately 252,000 unregistered shares of our common stock over the past 12 months as part of the purchase price, or associated with the financing of a transaction. In addition, we may issue additional shares in connection with such acquisitions upon the achievement of certain earn-out thresholds. The availability of those shares for sale to the public under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at prices we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions which will make it more difficult to execute our acquisition strategy. The issuance of additional shares may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. We currently have in place a universal shelf registration statement which allows us to publicly issue up to $75 million of additional securities, including debt, common stock, preferred stock, and warrants. The shelf registration is intended to provide greater flexibility to us in financing growth or changing our capital structure. At any time we may make private offerings of our securities. We have issued, and may be required to issue, additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents in payment of the purchase price of businesses we have acquired. This will have the effect of further increasing the number of shares outstanding. In connection with future acquisitions, we may undertake the issuance of more shares of common stock without notice to our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares in order to, among other things, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons in the discretion of our Board of Directors, which could result in diluting the interests of our existing stockholders. The exercise or conversion of our outstanding options, warrants or other convertible securities or any derivative securities we issue in the future will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue 100 million shares of common stock. As of September 26, 2013, we had 33,348,166 outstanding shares of common stock. We may in the future issue up to 5,555,781 additional shares of our common stock upon exercise of existing options. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms for those shares without the approval of our stockholders. Any such preferred 19 Table of Contents stock we may issue in the future could rank ahead of our common stock in many ways, including in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, and voting rights. As we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock, investors in our shares of common stock will not receive any dividend income. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any dividends that we may pay in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our future earnings, any applicable regulatory considerations, our financial requirements and other similarly unpredictable factors. Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the terms of our Credit Facility with BofA and the Investment Agreement with Caltius. Accordingly, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our stock. From time to time, we publish certain forward-looking information regarding our future anticipated performance, which information may be materially different than our actual future results. From time to time, we publish certain forward-looking information regarding our future anticipated performance, including guidance with respect to our estimated future revenues and profits. This forward-looking information is not a guaranty and is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking information. While it is impossible to identify all of the factors that may cause our actual operating performance, events, trends or plans to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking information, such factors include the inherent risks associated with our recent and future acquisitions, our operations, management and other outside competitive and economic influences on our business. Important factors with regard to our recent acquisitions that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations, include but are not limited to: our ability to maintain the future operations of our recently acquired businesses in a manner consistent with their past practices; our recently acquired businesses will be able to maintain and grow their revenues and operating margins in a manner consistent with their most recent results of operations; our ability to integrate the operations of such businesses with our existing operations, as well as our ability to realize expected financial and operational cost and revenue synergies through such integration; our reliance on the acquired management teams and the continued customer relationships provided by the acquired businesses; the effect that these acquisitions will have on their existing customers and employees; the effect that the acquisitions will have on our historic and existing network of locations; and any material adverse change in the composition of their customers. Important additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to, our ability to: use our Bellevue, Washington operations as a “platform” upon which we can build a profitable global transportation and supply chain management company; retain and build upon the relationships we have with our agency offices; continue the development of our back office infrastructure and transportation and accounting systems in a manner sufficient to service our expanding revenues and network of operating locations; maintain and enhance the future operations of our company owned operating locations; continue growing our business and maintain historical or increased gross profit margins; locate suitable acquisition opportunities; secure the financing necessary to complete any acquisition opportunities we locate; assess and respond to competitive practices in the industries in which we compete; mitigate, to the best extent possible, our dependence on current management and certain of our larger agency relationships; assess and respond to the impact of current and future laws and governmental regulations affecting the transportation industry in general and our operations in particular; and assess and respond to such other factors that may be identified from time to time in our SEC filings and other public announcements. Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even 20 Table of Contents effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 