ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price or value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When making an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Existing economic conditions and high unemployment have negatively affected consumer spending and adversely impacted our revenues and our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. The restaurant industry continues to be adversely affected by weak macroeconomic conditions in the United States, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, rising unemployment, crises in the housing markets, volatility in the financial markets and reductions in consumer spending. The decline in the economy has reduced, and for the foreseeable future, may continue to reduce, consumer confidence and negatively impact consumers' restaurant spending in both the short term and long term, including the frequency of restaurant visits and a decrease in the amounts spent. Fewer visits and reduced spending could result in lower revenues and be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, our restaurants are primarily located near high activity areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. A decline in development or closures of businesses in these existing centers or a decline in visitors to the centers near our restaurants or in discretionary consumer spending could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various risks and unexpected circumstances, increases in costs, seasonality, weather, and other factors outside our control. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual quarterly and annual results to fluctuate significantly or be impacted negatively. In addition to the risks resulting from the unfavorable economy described above, these risks include but are not limited to: extended periods of inclement weather which may affect guest visits as well as limit the availability of key commodities such as beef, poultry, potatoes and other items that are important ingredients in our products; downturns or delays in residential or commercial real estate development, which influence our restaurant development; increases in energy costs, costs of food, supplies, maintenance, labor and benefits, as well as other operating costs; material disruptions in our supply chain; changes in borrowings and interest rates; changes to accounting methods or philosophies; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and losses on restaurant closures; unanticipated expenses from natural disasters and repairs to damaged or lost property. Moreover, our business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the summer months and winter holiday season. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. The change in our national advertising campaign tactic to return to cable television in 2010 may be insufficient to generate increased sales or otherwise meet expectations. In 2007 and 2008 we conducted national advertising campaigns on cable television and the Internet to improve brand awareness in new markets and to strengthen brand awareness in all markets. While we believe the 2007 and 2008 campaigns were effective in communicating and reinforcing our key brand equities, third party studies indicated that brand awareness from the campaigns peaked beginning in the second half of 2008. Thus, we believed that continued national cable advertising would not continue to provide satisfactory returns from similar investments in 2009. However, this decision did not anticipate the downturn in the economy beginning in the latter part of 2008 and the competitive challenges it would create. Accordingly, in the spring of 2010, we intend to return to the use of a national cable television advertising campaign to promote new products offered on a limited time basis. 14 Table of Contents Based on the results of the spring campaign, we will determine whether to continue national cable television advertising for the remainder of 2010. This change in the television advertising tactic may not be successful and may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, many of our competitors have successfully used national marketing strategies, including network and cable television advertising in the past, and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs. Decreased cash flow from operations may result in a deceleration in the number of our new restaurant openings and adversely affect our ability to utilize or comply with the terms of our credit facility. As a result of decreased cash flow from operations, our ability to fund our operations and to take advantage of growth opportunities may be adversely affected and may result in a further deceleration of the number and timing of new restaurant openings. In addition, these macroeconomic disruptions and the negative impact on our revenues could adversely affect our ability to access or comply with our covenants under our credit facility. Further, the disruption in the credit markets may adversely affect the availability of financing for our franchisees' expansions and operations, and could affect our vendors' ability to meet supply requirements. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. Competition in the restaurant industry is increasingly intense. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets to well-capitalized national restaurant companies. In addition, we compete with other restaurants and with retail establishments for real estate. Many of our competitors are well established in the casual dining market segment and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than do we. Accordingly, they may be better equipped than us to increase marketing or to take other measures to maintain their competitive position, including the use of significant discount offers to attract guests. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our results of operations. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our restaurants feature burgers, salads, soups, appetizers, other entrees, such as fajitas and pasta, desserts, and our signature Mad Mixology® alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in a family-friendly atmosphere. While burger consumption in the United States has grown over the past 20 years, the demand may not continue to grow or taste trends may change. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of these foods and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, competitors' use of heavy advertising and significant food discounting could influence our guests' dining choices Approximately 50% of our company-owned restaurants are located in the Western United States and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in this region. As of December 27, 2009, a total of 151 or 49.4% of all Company-owned restaurants, representing 56.6% of restaurant revenue, were located in the western United States (i.e., Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon and Washington). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this region, including its labor market. In recent years, these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing downturn and the overall economic recession than other geographic areas. As a result, we have seen a more substantial decline in guest traffic at our 15 Table of Contents restaurants in the western United States, which has had a negative effect on our operations as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the western United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages, or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters. Expanding our restaurant base is critical to our long-term success, and our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control. Our strategy to expand our restaurant base depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of our expansion strategy and the success of new restaurants will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •continued unstable, negative macroeconomic factors nationally and regionally that impact restaurant-level performance and influence our decisions on the rate of expansion, timing, and the number of restaurants to be opened; •identification and ability to secure an adequate supply of available and suitable restaurant sites; •negotiation of favorable lease and construction terms; •cost and availability of capital to fund restaurant expansion and operation; •the availability of construction materials and labor; •our ability to manage construction and development costs of new restaurants; •timely adherence to development schedules; •securing required governmental approvals and permits and in a timely manner; •availability and retention of qualified operating personnel to staff our new restaurants, especially managers; •competition in our markets and general economic conditions that may affect consumer spending or choice; •our ability to attract and retain guests; and •our ability to operate at acceptable profit margins. Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to lack of guest familiarity with our brand in new areas and our lack of familiarity with the new market. While we believe our 2007 and 2008 national advertising campaigns were effective in increasing brand awareness in new markets, some of our new restaurants may be located in areas where there is limited or no market awareness of the Red Robin® brand. Those markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns that are different from our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. Expansion into new geographic markets negatively impacts our ability to leverage costs, inventory, resources, and operating efficiencies for new restaurants because of the limited number of new restaurants initially. As we expand into new markets and geographic territories, our operating cost structures and practices may not follow our experience in existing markets. For example, we will need to work with 16 Table of Contents new developers with whom we may not be able to negotiate terms as favorable as in other areas or markets. Because there will initially be fewer Red Robin® restaurants in a given area, our ability is limited to effectively utilize regional supervision of restaurants; and to encourage food distributors to hold sufficient inventory which may lead to spot shortages. Further, development and operating costs may increase due to geographic distances between restaurants that increase purchasing, pre-opening, labor, and transportation costs, and we may incur more marketing expense to build brand recognition in areas where we are not well known. In addition, financial performance of restaurants in new markets may be more unpredictable. New or less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue for nine months or more. New and less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and percentage of revenue initially when compared to restaurants in the comparable restaurant base. Although new restaurants generally reach lower than average levels of comparable restaurant sales and profitability within months of opening, our restaurants are currently taking approximately nine months or more to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often significantly greater during the first several months of operation. Further, some or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. Our continuing focus on restaurant expansion through further penetrating existing markets could cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our areas of highest concentration are California, Colorado, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and Washington. We expect that approximately 75% of our new restaurants opened in 2010 will be in our existing markets. Because we typically draw guests from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and guest counts for existing restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to the opening of the new restaurant. Our ability to utilize our revolving credit agreement and our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in our operating plans, continued expansion plans, increased investment in advertising, franchise acquisition opportunities, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses, or other events, including those described in this section, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our growth and other plans, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Additional debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants and/or financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate our business. Our current credit agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, engage in mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, and sale-leaseback transactions, and to sell assets, incur indebtedness, make investments, create liens, and pay dividends. Our credit agreement also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests and to reduce the principal outstanding balance on our term loan on a quarterly basis with full repayment of the credit facility on June 15, 2012. These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Use of our credit facility for our restaurant acquisitions in 2007 and 2008, as well as our 2008 repurchase of shares of our common stock, reduced available capital under the credit agreement. In addition, the ability of our lenders to honor their commitments under the credit facility may be diminished in view of the current macroeconomic environment. 17 Table of Contents If our franchisees cannot develop or finance new restaurants, build them on suitable sites, or open them on schedule, our growth and success may be impeded. Some of our franchisees depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing, it could adversely affect the number and rate of new restaurant openings by our franchisees and adversely affect our future franchise revenues. Under our current form of area development agreement, franchisees must develop a predetermined number of restaurants in their area according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development agreement. Given the current economic environment, franchisees may not have access to the financing and management resources they need to open the restaurants required by their development schedules or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. Franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. From time to time in the past, we have agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain area developers, and we may do so in the future. Any such extensions or modifications may have a negative effect on franchise revenues. The acquisition of existing restaurants from our franchisees may have unanticipated consequences that could harm our business and financial condition. We may in the future continue to selectively acquire existing restaurants from our franchisees. In order to complete any proposed acquisition, we would need to, among other things, evaluate the suitability of the proposed acquisition, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, and obtain appropriate financing. Any acquisition that we pursue, whether or not successfully completed, may involve risks, including: •that proposed acquisitions may not be completed, if at all, on a timely basis or upon terms most beneficial to the Company; •the inability to integrate the acquired restaurants into our operations and operate them as expected; •negative effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as we integrate the franchisee's operations into our operations; •risks associated with entering into markets or conducting operations where we have no or limited experience or brand recognition; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns during the acquisition and integration process; •that an acquisition, depending upon whether accomplished through a cash purchase transaction or the issuance of our equity securities, or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition; and •potentially need to spend additional capital to upgrade or align the physical assets or software with our current standards and systems. 18 Table of Contents Our existing systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our growth plans. We face the risk that our existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information and accounting systems, management resources, and human resources will be inadequate to support our planned expansion of company-owned and franchised restaurants. Our expansion may strain our infrastructure and other resources, which could slow our restaurant development or cause other problems. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on our infrastructure and other resources. Any failure by us to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve our expansion objectives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on information technology and any material failure of that technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely on information systems in all aspects of our operations, including (but not limited to) point-of-sale transaction processing in our restaurants; operation of our restaurant kitchens; management of our inventories; collection of cash; payment of payroll and other obligations; and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of our in-house information systems and those technology services and systems for which we contract for from third parties. These systems and services continuously evolve and require upgrading or expansion to fit our growth, and consequently require significant commitments of resources and capital to maintain and upgrade. If any of these systems fails to operate effectively, or if we experience any problems with their maintenance, upgrades or transitions to replacement systems, or any breaches in data security we could experience material interruptions to our operations. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery programs, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. Significant capital investment might be required to remediate any problems, infringements, misappropriations or other third party claims. Our operations are susceptible to the changes in cost and availability of food which could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products, and seasonality, as well as the impact of the current macroeconomic environment on our suppliers, may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Changes in the price or availability of commodities for which we do not have fixed price contracts could materially adversely affect our profitability. Expiring contracts with our food suppliers could also result in unfavorable renewal terms and therefore increase costs associated with these suppliers or may even necessitate negotiations with alternate suppliers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by negotiating more favorable contract terms with suppliers or by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, because we provide a "value-priced" product, we may not be able to pass along food cost increases to our guests in the form of menu price increases. In addition, the ability of our suppliers to meet our supply requirements upon favorable terms, if at all, may be impacted by the current macroeconomic environment. Price increases may negatively impact guest visits. From time to time, we may take price increases on selected menu items in order to offset increased operating expenses that we believe would be recurring. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that any future 19 Table of Contents price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants, reduce the frequency of their visits, or affect their purchasing decisions. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent entities and are not our employees, partners, or affiliates. We share with our franchisees what we believe to be best practices in the restaurant industry; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand and compliance with our operating standards, and the confidentiality thereof, are maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that our franchisees will avoid actions that adversely affect the reputation of Red Robin or the value of our proprietary information. Our image and reputation and the image and reputation of other franchisees may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate these restaurants according to our standards. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property, including the Red Robin America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits,® name and logo. Although we have registered trademarks for Red Robin®, America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits® and Mad Mixology®, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in Canada, our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how in operating our restaurants, and we employ various methods to protect those trade secrets and that proprietary know-how. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts and recipes. Consequently, our business could be adversely impacted and less profitable if we are unable to successfully defend and protect our intellectual property. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken, or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about food-related illness, the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity or publication of government or industry findings concerning food quality, illness and injury. Further, consumers may react negatively to reports concerning our food products or health or other concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more of our restaurants. Such negative publicity, whether or not valid, may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in decreased guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact our ability to govern various aspects of our business including our ability to expand and develop our restaurants. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local government regulations, including those relating to the food safety and disclosure, alcoholic beverage control, public accommodations, and public health and safety. These regulations are subject to continual changes and updating. Difficulties 20 Table of Contents or failures in obtaining or maintaining the required licenses and approvals or maintaining compliance with existing or newly enacted requirements could delay the opening or affect the continued operation and profitability of one or more restaurants in a particular area. We are also subject to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage control or dram shop regulations could subject the company to liability and could adversely affect our business. Various federal and state employment laws govern our relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws govern minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, labor relations, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct. Additional government-imposed increases in federal and state minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence, and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for team members who receive tips, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could harm our operating results. We are also subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that franchise materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in the state. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively impact our business. There has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters, such as the emission of greenhouse gases. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the United States to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. We are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on the business as those effects are likely to be complex. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury, or other food quality, health, or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In fact, we are subject to the same risks of adverse publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim actually involves one of our franchisees. In addition, any failure by us to comply with the various federal and state labor laws governing our relationship with our team members including requirements pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct, may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. The possibility of a material adverse effect on our business relating to employment litigation is even more pronounced given the high concentration of team members employed in the western United States, as this region, 21 Table of Contents and California in particular, has a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. Further, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 