Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our success depends on our ability to price accurately the risks we underwrite. Our results of operations and financial condition depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Adequate rates are necessary to generate premiums sufficient to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. To price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate pricing techniques; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: • the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; • the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; • our selection and application of appropriate pricing techniques; and • changes in applicable legal liability standards and in the civil litigation system generally. For example, our inability to obtain required regulatory approval of rate increases necessary to profitably write non-standard automobile insurance in California was the primary reason we exited the California non-standard automobile insurance market beginning in 2001. Consequently, we could underprice risks, which would adversely affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either case, the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Our results and financial condition may be adversely affected by our failure to establish adequate loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liability for losses and related loss adjustment expenses for both reported and unreported claims on insurance policies issued by our insurance companies. For certain of our lines of business, several years may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and our payment of the relevant claim. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, involving actuarial and statistical projections of what we expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of claims based on historical claims information, estimates of future trends in claims severity and other variable factors such as inflation. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been, and will continue to be, necessary to revise estimated future liabilities as reflected in our reserves for claims and related expenses. Our gross loss and loss adjustment expense reserves totaled $117.8 million at December 31, 2005. Our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, net of reinsurance recoverables, were $57.7 million at that date. We cannot be sure that our ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses will not exceed our reserves. For example, we recently began writing homeowners insurance in the state of Florida. Given our limited history writing this business, we initially will rely heavily on industry loss experience in establishing our loss reserves. Our own loss experience in this new line of business could run materially higher than industry loss experience. If and to the extent that our reserves prove inadequate, whether in our Florida homeowners insurance line or any other line of business, we will be required to increase our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses and incur a charge to earnings in the period during which our reserves are increased, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, based on our range analysis in “Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses,” if our net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2005, were greater by $2.7 million or lower by $4.6 million, therein would result in a corresponding decrease or increase in our net income for 2005 of $1.8 million or $3.0 million, respectively. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates” and “— Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses,” incorporated elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 24 Table of Contents We depend upon our network of independent agents for revenues and market opportunities, and our business may not continue to grow and may be materially and adversely affected if we cannot retain existing, and attract new, independent agents. Our network of independent agents accounts for almost all of the gross premiums on insurance policies that we write and constitutes our primary distribution channel for our products. In addition, we have developed several successful products based on referrals from our independent agents of new specialty market opportunities. As a result, our business depends heavily on the efforts of our independent agents and on our ability to offer products that meet the needs of our independent agents and their customers, and the continued growth of our business will depend materially upon our ability to retain existing, and attract new, independent agents. Independent agents are not obligated to market or sell our insurance products or consult with us. Since many of our competitors also rely significantly on independent agents, we must compete for the business and goodwill of our independent agents. Some of our competitors may offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage and higher commissions for independent agents. Accordingly, we might not be able to continue to attract and retain independent agents to market and sell our products and otherwise work with us. A material reduction in the amount of business that our independent agents sell for us would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The failure for any reason of our independent agents to refer new market opportunities to us could have adverse effects on our growth prospects. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, results of operations and capital. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of our in-house claims representatives, the culture of our claims handling group, the effectiveness of our management and our development or selection and implementation of appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims handling functions. For example, given the recent expansion in our homeowners insurance business in Florida, we could experience difficulties in hiring and training claims personnel sufficient to evaluate and pay claims on a timely and accurate basis if a catastrophic event were to occur in that state. Our failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace and, as a result, adversely affect our results of operations and capital. Our failure to hire and train new claims handling employees effectively or our loss of a significant number of experienced claims handling employees could have adverse effects on our ability to handle an increasing claims workload as we grow, thereby hindering our ability to profitably expand our business. In addition, we could suffer decreased quality of claims handling, which in turn could negatively impact our results of operations. Our financial results may be adversely affected by conditions in the states where our business is concentrated. While we currently offer insurance products in 34 states, our business is primarily concentrated in two states, Florida and Michigan. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 60.6% of our net premiums earned related to policies issued to customers in Florida and 22.0% of our net premiums earned related to policies issued to customers in Michigan. Our revenues and profitability are subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies which are more geographically diversified. Because our business is concentrated in this manner, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in Michigan or Florida could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We have a limited history writing homeowners insurance policies to homeowners in Florida, and our Florida homeowners business may not perform as we expect, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have a limited history of underwriting, reserving and managing claims for homeowners insurance policies in Florida. We began writing our first Florida homeowners insurance policies in December 2004 and by December 31, 2005 we had 29,000 Florida homeowners policies outstanding, constituting 20.4% of our net premiums earned for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our Florida homeowners insurance policies have terms of one year, and we expect that certain claims made under these policies may remain outstanding following the end of the policy term. As a result, there is no historical information available to help you evaluate our track record in this type of business. Since our existing underwriting and claims management personnel have limited prior experience underwriting and managing claims for Florida homeowners insurance policies, we cannot predict with a high degree of certainty how this new business will affect our profitability or our financial condition. It is possible that the actual performance of our Florida homeowners business will not meet our expectations or that we may suffer losses in our operations from poor performance of our Florida homeowners business. In addition, due to our limited experience writing Florida homeowners insurance, we will be forced to rely more heavily on industry loss experience in establishing our loss reserves than we normally would for lines of business that we write. Our own loss experience in this new line of business could be materially higher than industry loss experience, whether due to our inexperience in underwriting, claims managing or otherwise, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Also, anticipated catastrophic losses due to hurricanes or other disasters are difficult to predict and model. Our pricing may not be sufficient to cover such future catastrophic losses. Implementation of our growth strategies is subject to numerous risks and difficulties. Our growth strategies include writing more premium in our existing markets, expanding existing product lines and programs into new markets, developing new products and programs for our agents and engaging in complementary acquisitions. Our implementation of these strategies is subject to various risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • identify, recruit and integrate new independent agents; • properly design and price new and existing products and programs; • identify profitable new geographic markets and product lines to enter; • obtain necessary licenses; • identify acquisition candidates and successfully execute and integrate acquisitions we undertake; and • identify, hire and train new underwriting and claims handling employees. We may encounter other difficulties in the implementation of our growth strategies, including unanticipated expenditures and damaged or lost relationships with customers and independent agents. In addition, our growth strategies may require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. For example, we recently entered the homeowners insurance market in Florida. Since our existing personnel have limited prior experience writing homeowners insurance in Florida, we cannot predict with a high degree of certainty how this new business will impact our profitability. Any such difficulties could result in excessive diversion of senior management time and adversely affect our financial results. Further, any acquisitions that we pursue may require significant capital outlays and will require the consent of the lenders under our senior credit facility. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to pay for an acquisition, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common shareholders or the issuance may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Once an acquisition is made, we could suffer increased costs, disruption of our business and distraction of our management while we integrate the acquired business into our operations. Any failure by us to manage our growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 26 Table of Contents If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitment. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase one or more types of reinsurance coverage, including excess of loss, catastrophe, corporate clash and facultative reinsurance coverage, for 100% (subject to applicable retentions and limits) of the risks underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage or to obtain, on a timely basis, other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts or at acceptable rates. Similar risks exist whether we are seeking to replace coverage terminated during the applicable coverage period or to renew or replace coverage upon the expiration thereof. For example, as a result of the large hurricane losses in 2004 and 2005, market conditions for private reinsurance on Florida hurricane coverage are generally unfavorable and the terms and pricing available to us may not be as favorable as the terms and pricing we have obtained in the past and, as a result, may be prohibitively expensive. Moreover, there may be a situation in which we have more than two catastrophe events within one policy year. Since our current catastrophe reinsurance programs only allow for one automatic reinstatement, we would be required to obtain new catastrophe reinsurance to maintain our current level of catastrophe reinsurance coverage. We may find it difficult to obtain such coverage, particularly in the middle of the hurricane season. For example, if a second event has just occurred and, at the same time, another tropical storm or hurricane is approaching the coast, posing a threat of a third event, the reinsurance market may exclude that particular risk from the third event coverage. In addition, reinstatement charges resulting from a catastrophe may constitute material expenses that are in addition to the losses incurred. For example, of our $7.3 million pre-tax expenses relating to four hurricanes in 2004, $1.1 million was attributable to reinstatement charges for our catastrophe reinsurance program. Similarly, in 2005, of our $14.8 million pre-tax expenses relating to four hurricanes in 2005, $3.0 million was attributable to reinstatement charges for our catastrophe reinsurance program. In addition, we incurred $248,000 of reinstatement charges on our catastrophe reinsurance programs relating to assessments from Citizens. In 2005, we have paid, or accrued a liability in anticipation of paying, $8.5 million in assessments imposed, or expected to be imposed, by Citizens. Of the $8.5 million of assessments, we expect to recover $8.0 million from our catastrophe reinsurers. In the future, catastrophe reinsurance contracts may limit or eliminate this coverage, or significantly increase reinsurance rates for such coverage. As of December, 2005, we maintained reinsurance coverage from approximately 60 reinsurers. In the past, depending upon the type of coverage and line of business, it has generally taken us between one and two months to replace reinsurance coverage upon the cancellation or expiration of existing coverage. In order to replace existing reinsurance coverage, we first identify possible alternative reinsurers to provide us with the coverage we require. We do this either through our reinsurance broker or through our contacts in the direct reinsurance market, as well as independent research. Once alternative reinsurers have been identified, we allow them to perform due diligence on our relevant insurance business. Upon completion of this due diligence process, we will negotiate the terms of the applicable reinsurance coverage with the selected reinsurer. We believe that, in the future, it would take at least the same amount of time to identify alternative providers of reinsurance coverage, allow them to perform the necessary diligence regarding our insurance business, and negotiate the terms of the applicable coverage as it has in the past. If we are unwilling to increase our risk exposure or seek to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite, we may be required to pay substantially greater premiums to obtain the desired reinsurance coverage. These increased premiums could, in turn, adversely impact our profitability. Alternatively, if we were to increase our risk exposure in an effort to reduce our reinsurance coverage costs, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result of having to pay greater losses on claims. Our current catastrophe reinsurance coverages expire on June 30, 2006, except for our catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our Florida homeowners business which expires on May 31, 2006. Our catastrophe reinsurance program for all of our lines of business, except our Florida homeowners business (which is handled under a separate program), provides coverage up to $60.0 million, subject to a retention of 27 Table of Contents $3.0 million. For losses in excess of $10.0 million and up to $26.0 million, we pay 1.25% of losses and for losses in excess of $50.0 million and up to $60.0 million, we pay 2.5% of losses. Our catastrophe reinsurance program for our Florida homeowners business provides coverage up to $139.0 million, subject to a retention of $3.0 million. For losses in excess of $64.0 million and up to $104.0 million, we pay 1.25% of losses. Both catastrophe reinsurance programs are designed to provide coverage for two occurrences in a policy year, subject to applicable reinstatement charges. See “Business — Reinsurance.” If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. In addition, both the insurance policies we issue and our reinsurance contracts generally renew annually, but, in most cases, there is a timing difference between when we know what reinsurance rates we will be charged and when we can charge new premium rates to existing policyholders. We are required to wait until a policy renews before we can increase the premium rate on that policy. In the event reinsurance coverage premium rates increase significantly in the interim, there may be a period of time during which our policy pricing may not be sufficient to cover the costs of available reinsurance coverage, thereby adversely affecting our profitability or requiring us to bear additional risk. For example, substantially all of our existing Florida homeowners insurance policies were renewed effective January 2006. The premium rates charged by us for those policies were subject to prior regulatory approval and other requirements and, consequently, were established in late 2005, prior to the occurrence of Hurricane Wilma at the end of October. Our current catastrophe reinsurance coverage for our Florida homeowners business expires on May 31, 2006, and we may be required to pay substantially higher premiums to renew or replace this coverage than we were anticipating when we established our Florida homeowners insurance rates in late 2005. The foregoing timing considerations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and mandatory reinsurance arrangements may reduce our profitability. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business therein to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are levied by guaranty associations within the state, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in the state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us by the states in which we are licensed to write insurance may increase as we increase our premiums written. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in Florida, insurance companies are required to participate in Florida’s mandatory reinsurance fund, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund. We are also subject to assessments from the Citizens Property Insurance Company. The effect of these assessments and mandatory reinsurance arrangements, or changes in them, could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business. In 2005, we incurred $539,000 of after-tax expenses, net of reinsurance recoverables, attributable to Citizens’ assessments. See “Business — Regulatory Environment — Membership in Insolvency Funds and Associations; Mandatory Pools and Insurance Entities,” incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims that we incur. All of our property insurance business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as hurricanes, winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms and fires and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. For example, we incurred $4.8 million of after-tax expenses relating to four hurricanes which caused significant property damage in Florida in 2004. We also incurred $9.8 million of after-tax expenses relating to four hurricanes which caused significant property damage in Florida, Texas and the U.S. Gulf coast in 2005. Substantially all of these losses were generated in our Florida commercial and homeowners lines of business. Because we are increasing the amount of 28 Table of Contents commercial and homeowners insurance that we write in Florida and other southern states, we may become subject to greater risk due to hurricanes. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Severe weather conditions and catastrophes can cause losses in all of our property lines and generally result in both an increase in the number of claims incurred and an increase in the dollar amount of each claim asserted, which might require us to increase our reserves and cause our liquidity and financial condition to deteriorate. In addition, our inability to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable rates and in amounts adequate to mitigate the risks associated with severe weather conditions and other catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is cyclical, which affects our financial performance and may affect the market price of our common stock. The financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry historically has been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. Although an individual insurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. This cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and to general economic factors that are not within our control, and therefore we cannot predict how long any given hard or soft market will last. If we find it necessary to reduce premiums or limit premium increases due to competitive pressures on pricing in a softening market, we may experience a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is seasonal, which affects our financial performance and may affect the market price of our common stock. Our business has historically been seasonal. We generally experience higher losses in our personal lines insurance segment, namely homeowners insurance, during the first quarter of the year as a result of an increase in claims due to winter weather conditions in the Midwestern states in which we do business. For example, winter weather may cause property damage that impacts claim incidence and severity. We also expect to experience higher losses in our homeowners line during the second and third quarters of the year due to our recent expansion into the Florida homeowners insurance business and the incidence of hurricanes and other severe weather that often occur in that state during those quarters. The recurrence of these seasonal patterns, or any deviation from them, could affect the market price of our common stock. Intense competition could adversely affect our results of operations. Our markets are highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are few barriers to entry. Our insurance companies compete with other insurance companies that sell commercial and personal insurance policies through independent agents as well as with insurance companies that sell policies directly to their customers. Our competitors include not only large national insurance companies, but also small regional companies. Some of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings and greater resources than we have and offer a wider array of products and services or competing products and services at lower prices. In addition, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates. In that case, we could experience reductions in our underwriting margins, or sales of our insurance policies could decline as customers purchase lower-priced products from our competitors. Losing business to competitors offering similar products at lower prices, or having other competitive advantages, would adversely affect our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our ability to implement our growth strategies could be hindered. Our success depends in part upon the continued services of our senior management team, particularly our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, James G. Petcoff, and our Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, B. Matthew Petcoff. We have entered into employment agreements with James G. Petcoff and B. Matthew Petcoff. As of December 31, 2005, we also had key-person life insurance on James G. Petcoff having a face value of $6.0 million. We do not have employment agreements with any other executive officers or employees. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel as we grow, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and could prevent us from fully implementing our growth strategies. The success of certain of our product lines, including our bowling center insurance product line, depends upon our receipt of trade association endorsements, and we may not be able to retain existing endorsements or secure new endorsements. Our marketing efforts and the growth of certain of our lines of business depend to a significant extent upon our receipt of trade association endorsements. For example, our early success in selling property, general liability and liquor liability insurance policies to owner-operated bowling centers in Michigan was attributable, in large part, to our endorsement by the Bowling Centers Association of Michigan. Our subsequent expansion of our bowling program into other states has been facilitated by similar trade association endorsements in those states. In addition, our liquor liability insurance product line has benefited from our endorsement by the Associated Food Dealers of Michigan. Although we pay marketing fees in connection with these endorsements, we have no long-term contractual rights to any endorsements, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain these endorsements. In addition, we cannot predict whether a particular trade association in a state into which we might seek to expand would grant us any similar endorsement (whether exclusive or non-exclusive). The loss of one or more of our existing endorsements or our failure to obtain additional endorsements could hinder our marketing efforts and limit our ability to compete with other insurance providers. As a holding company, we depend on payments from our subsidiaries to satisfy our financial obligations. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we depend upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries. We cannot meet our financial obligations unless we receive payments from our subsidiaries, including our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, the payment of future cash dividends, if any, by us to our shareholders will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends by us and our subsidiaries (including those contained in our senior credit facility) and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory and other restrictions limiting their ability to pay dividends to us. State insurance laws limit the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and require our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain specified minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. In addition, for competitive reasons, our insurance companies need to maintain financial strength ratings, which in turn require us to maintain certain levels of capital and surplus in those subsidiaries. The need to maintain capital and surplus levels may affect the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Without regulatory approval, the aggregate maximum amount of dividends that could be paid to us in 2006 by our insurance company subsidiaries is approximately $6.6 million. The aggregate maximum amount of dividends permitted by law to be paid by an insurance company does not necessarily define an insurance company’s actual ability to pay dividends. The actual ability to pay dividends may be further constrained by business and regulatory considerations, such as the impact of 30 Table of Contents dividends on surplus, which could affect the ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries; our competitive position; and the amount of premiums that we can write. State insurance regulators have broad discretion to limit the payment of dividends by insurance companies, and our right to participate in any distribution of assets of one of our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to prior claims of policyholders and creditors except to the extent that our rights, if any, as a creditor are recognized. As a result, a prolonged, significant decline in the profits of our insurance company subsidiaries, or regulatory action limiting dividends, could subject us to shortages of cash because our insurance company subsidiaries would not be able to pay us dividends. We also rely on service contracts entered into with or between our non-insurance company subsidiaries and our insurance company subsidiaries, and to the extent that the amounts charged under these contracts are modified by the applicable insurance regulatory authority, less cash may be available to us. We are subject to comprehensive regulation that poses particular risks to our ability to earn profits. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation by state insurance agencies in Michigan and Florida, the states in which they are domiciled. They are also subject to regulation by state insurance agencies in the states where they sell insurance products, issue policies and handle claims. Additionally, our captive reinsurance subsidiary is subject to regulation under the laws of the District of Columbia. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations and obtain necessary and timely regulatory action is and will continue to be critical to our success and ability to earn profits. Examples of state regulation that pose particular risks to our ability to earn profits include the following: • Required licensing. Our insurance company subsidiaries operate under licenses issued by various state insurance agencies. If a regulatory authority were to deny or delay granting a new license, our ability to enter that market quickly or offer new insurance products in that market would be substantially impaired. For example, we have been experiencing difficulty in obtaining a surplus lines license in the state of New York for North Pointe Insurance due to its current A.M. Best rating. • Regulation of insurance rates and approval of policy forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we operate require insurance companies to file insurance rate schedules and policy forms for review and approval. If rate increases we deem necessary are not approved by a state insurance agency, we may not be able to respond to market developments and increased costs in that state. For example, we exited the California non-standard automobile insurance market beginning in 2001 due principally to difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval of desired rate increases. Likewise, if insurance policy forms we seek to use are not approved by a state insurance agency, our ability to offer new products and grow our business in that state would be substantially impaired. • Restrictions on cancellation, non-renewal or withdrawal. Many states have laws and regulations restricting an insurance company’s ability to cease or significantly reduce its sales of certain types of insurance in that state. These laws and regulations could limit our ability to exit or reduce our business in unprofitable markets or discontinue unprofitable products. For example, we experienced difficulty in exiting the California non-standard automobile insurance market in a timely manner due to regulatory constraints on our ability to cease renewing existing policies. • Transactions between insurance companies and their affiliates. Transactions between our subsidiary insurance companies and their affiliates generally must be disclosed to — and in some cases approved by — state insurance agencies. State insurance agencies may refuse to approve or delay their approval of a transaction, which may impact our ability to innovate or operate efficiently. Compliance with these state laws and regulations requires us to incur administrative costs that decrease our profits. These laws and regulations may also prevent or limit our ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, obtain timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs, discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets, and otherwise grow our business profitably. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in actions by state or federal regulators, including the imposition of fines and penalties or, in an extreme case, revocation of our ability to do business in one or more states. Finally, we could face individual, group and class-action lawsuits by our policyholders and others for 31 Table of Contents alleged violations of certain state laws and regulations. Each of these regulatory risks would have an effect on our profitability. We are subject to other state laws and regulations that impose additional administrative burdens and risks that may also affect our ability to earn profits. In addition to the foregoing discussion of state regulations posing particular risks to our profitability, our insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates are subject to other state laws and regulations in the states where they do business. These regulations involve, among other things: • the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues; • the use of credit history in underwriting and rating; • limitations on the ability to charge policy fees; • limitations on types and amounts of investments; • the payment of dividends; • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, assessments and other governmental charges; • reporting with respect to financial condition; • periodic financial and market conduct examinations performed by state insurance department examiners; and • with respect to our premium finance business, the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and similar state statutes. In states where premium finance statutes have not been enacted, we generally are subject to state usury laws that are applicable to consumer loans. State usury laws may limit the amount of interest we are allowed to charge our premium finance customers in these states. These other state laws and regulations also pose administrative burdens and risks upon our operations that could similarly affect our profitability. See “Business — Regulatory Environment.” Our insurance company subsidiaries, our premium finance subsidiary and our captive reinsurance subsidiary are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws, including the laws of their states of domicile (Michigan and Florida). The risk-based capital standards, or RBC standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require our insurance company subsidiaries to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to state insurance departments and the NAIC. These RBC standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level RBC limits. In addition, our premium finance subsidiary is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed under the laws of some of the states in which it conducts business, and our captive reinsurance subsidiary is subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements under the laws of the District of Columbia. Any failure to meet applicable RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject our insurance companies or our premium finance subsidiary to further examination or corrective action by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business or engaging in finance activities, state supervision or liquidation. Any changes in existing RBC requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we might be unable to do. 32 Table of Contents A reduction in our insurance company subsidiaries’ A.M. Best financial strength ratings could adversely affect our business and financial condition. A.M. Best, generally considered to be a leading authority on insurance company ratings and information, has currently assigned our insurance company subsidiaries financial strength ratings of “B++” (Very Good) for North Pointe Insurance and “B+” (Very Good) for North Pointe Casualty. A.M. Best assigns financial strength ratings ranging from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation). According to A.M. Best, “B+” and “B++” ratings are assigned to insurers that have a very good ability to meet their current obligations to policyholders. A.M. Best’s ratings reflect its opinion of an insurance company’s financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. These ratings are not evaluations directed to potential purchasers of our common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock. These ratings are subject to change at any time and could be revised downward or revoked in the sole discretion of A.M. Best. The failure of either North Pointe Insurance or North Pointe Casualty to maintain their A.M. Best ratings could cause our current and future independent agents and insureds to choose to transact their insurance business with more highly rated competitors. Because lenders and reinsurers will use our A.M. Best ratings as a factor in deciding whether to transact business with us, the failure of our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain their current ratings could dissuade a lender or reinsurance company from conducting business with us or might increase our interest or reinsurance costs. In addition, the failure of either North Pointe Insurance or North Pointe Casualty to maintain an A.M. Best rating of “B+” (Very Good) or higher would constitute an event of default under the terms of our existing credit facility. These factors would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We could incur significant losses or a shortage of liquidity if our reinsurers are unable to pay or do not pay our claims timely. Although our reinsurers are liable to us to the extent we transfer risk to them, if any of our reinsurers cannot pay their reinsurance obligations, or dispute these obligations, we remain liable to pay the claims of our policyholders. At December 31, 2005, we had a total of $84.9 million due us from reinsurers, including $77.5 million of recoverables from losses and $7.4 million in prepaid reinsurance premiums. The largest amount due us from a single reinsurer was $16.8 million, recoverable from Swiss Reinsurance American Corporation. Moreover, at December 31, 2005, we had nineteen reinsurers that owed us in excess of $1.0 million each and $74.8 million in the aggregate. If any of our reinsurers are unable or unwilling to pay amounts they owe us in a timely fashion, we could suffer a significant loss or a shortage of liquidity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The outcome of current industry investigations and regulatory proposals could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance industry has recently become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. Formal and informal inquiries have been made of a large segment of the industry, and a large number of companies in the industry have received or may receive subpoenas, requests for information from regulatory authorities or other inquiries relating to these and similar matters. These efforts are expected to result in both enforcement actions and proposals for new state and federal regulation. In addition, a number of class action lawsuits have been filed against insurance companies, brokers and other insurance industry participants. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations and proceedings, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form new regulations will have when finally adopted, or the impact, if any, of this increased regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation with respect to the insurance industry on our business and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents We may be subject to risks associated with our continued use of contingent commission arrangements with independent agents in Florida. We utilize contingent commission arrangements with certain of our independent agents in Florida that obligate us to pay contingent commissions to these agents based on the profitability of the insurance business written through such agents. We expensed $224,000, $316,000 and $302,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, relating to such contingent commission payments. Certain regulatory officials have recently questioned the use of certain contingent commission arrangements, primarily alleging that they may be improper if not adequately disclosed to consumers. The NAIC has adopted model legislation that would require greater disclosure of these arrangements by certain insurance agents and brokers, and several state regulators continue to investigate the use of these arrangements throughout the insurance industry. The adoption of regulations prohibiting the use of contingent commission arrangements or requiring greater disclosure of such arrangements, especially in the state of Florida, could adversely affect our business by, among other things, requiring us to implement less economically attractive methods of compensating our independent agents in Florida, requiring us to monitor our independent agents’ compliance with applicable disclosure requirements and potentially subjecting us to regulatory action or other liability for their failure to so comply. Changes in regulation could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that states will not make existing insurance-related laws and regulations more restrictive in the future or enact new restrictive laws. New or more restrictive laws and regulations in any state in which we conduct business could make it more expensive for us to conduct our business, restrict the premiums we are able to charge or otherwise change the way we do business. In such event, we might seek to reduce our insurance policy writings in, or to withdraw entirely from, the state in question. In addition, from time to time, Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. We cannot predict whether and to what extent new laws and regulations that would affect our business will be adopted, the timing of adoption or the effects, if any, they would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, state statutes currently require that certain types of insurance be maintained by individuals and businesses, including several of our key product lines. For example, a Michigan statute requires any applicant seeking a retail liquor license or a renewal of such license, including restaurants, bars and taverns, to obtain and maintain proof of financial responsibility providing security for liability under the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998, which creates liability for a person who sells or otherwise furnishes liquor to an intoxicated person or a minor. The required proof of financial responsibility may be in the form of a policy or policies of liquor liability insurance. Any amendment or repeal of such a state law could adversely affect our business in that state by diminishing the demand for our liquor liability insurance and related products. Adverse securities market conditions could have a significant and negative impact on our investment portfolio. Our results of operations depend in part on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2005, our total portfolio was $142.9 million, of which $98.0 million was invested in fixed-income securities, $34.3 million in cash and cash equivalents, $10.0 million in common stocks and $0.6 million in other investments. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed maturity securities, including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. In general, the fair value of a portfolio of fixed-income securities increases or decreases inversely with changes in market interest rates, while net investment income realized from future investments in fixed-income securities increases or decreases along with interest rates. In addition, some of our fixed-income securities have call or prepayment options. This subjects us to reinvestment risk should interest rates fall and issuers call their securities. We attempt to mitigate this risk by investing in securities with varied maturity dates, so that only a portion of the portfolio will mature at any point in time. Furthermore, actual net investment income or cash flows from 34 Table of Contents investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows that result from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, if market interest rates were to increase 1.0% (for example, the difference between 5.0% and 6.0%), then the fair value of our fixed-income securities would decrease by approximately $3.4 million. This change in fair value was determined using duration modeling, assuming no prepayments. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure or disruption of these systems could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. Our systems could fail of their own accord or might be disrupted by factors such as natural disasters, power disruptions or surges, computer hackers or terrorist attacks. Failure or disruption of these systems for any reason could interrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We became a public company in September 2005. As a private company without public reporting obligations, we have historically committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would be required of a public company. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and we are retaining a third party to assist us with our internal control evaluation. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. We may be required to comply with Section 404 no later than the time we are required to file our annual report for fiscal 2006 with the Commission. Recently, we have begun to take measures to address and improve our financial reporting and compliance capabilities and we are in the process of instituting changes to satisfy our obligations as a public company, including the requirements associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In the course of our ongoing evaluation process, we have identified certain areas of internal controls that require improvement, including internal controls relating to account reconciliation and supervisory review procedures. While we have begun to address these matters, we may be unable to correct these weaknesses, or other weaknesses that we may identify in our ongoing evaluation, in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards as then in effect and as supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price for our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. See Item 9A — “Controls and Procedures,” incorporated elsewhere within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Failure to manage effectively the costs and administrative burdens of being a newly public company would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market, and we will be responsible for complying with the various regulatory requirements imposed on public companies by Congress, the SEC and Nasdaq. 35 Table of Contents We incur significant costs and administrative burdens as a result of being a public company, particularly in light of recently adopted and proposed changes in federal statutes, SEC regulations and Nasdaq listing requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to manage effectively these increased costs and administrative burdens. 