Item 1A: Risk Factors 26 CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2013 or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or cause financial loss, potential liability to clients, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage, or regulatory intervention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural or man-made disasters, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or tornados, disease pandemics, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts or international hostilities. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The computer systems and network systems we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of third-party hardware, software, and service providers. In addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks, and could be susceptible to hacking, computer viruses, or identity theft. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. The adverse impact of disasters, terrorist activities, or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control over. We continually encounter technological change, and if we are unable to implement new or upgraded technology when required, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in our operations. If we are unable to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allow us to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be adversely affected by information security breaches or cyber security attacks. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as CIT have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, some of which may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. Our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of CIT’s or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt CIT’s or its customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. Recently, there have been several well-publicized series of apparently related denial of service attacks on large financial services companies. In a denial of service attack, hackers flood commercial websites with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic, with the goal of disrupting the ability of commercial enterprises to process transactions and possibly making their websites unavailable to customers for extended periods of time. We recently experienced denial of service attacks that targeted a third party service provider that provides software and customer services with respect to our online deposit taking activities, which resulted in temporary disruptions in customers’ ability to perform online banking transactions, although no customer data was lost or compromised. Even if not directed at CIT specifically, attacks on other entities with whom we do business or on whom we otherwise rely or attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system could adversely affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of our business. Since January 1, 2011, we have not experienced any material information security breaches involving either proprietary or customer information. However, if we experience cyber attacks or other information security breaches in the future, either the company or its customers may suffer material losses. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of CIT and its role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our online banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2013 27 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 