ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The future trading price of shares of our common stock will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. Risks Related to our Business We need to maintain and expand our existing operating partner network to increase revenues. We sell our services through Company-owned locations and through a network of strategic operating partner locations throughout North America operating under our brands. Approximately 66% and 75% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were derived through our operating partners. We believe our strategic operating partners will remain critical to our success for the foreseeable future. We have long-term contractual relationships with many of our operating partners. Although the terms of our operating partner agreements vary widely, they generally cover the manner and amount of payments, the services to be performed, the length of the contract, and provide us with certain protections such as partner-funded reserves and indemnification obligations, and often include a personal guaranty of the independent owner. Certain of our operating partner agreements are for defined terms, while others are subject to “evergreen” terms or contain automatic renewal provisions. In most situations, however, the agreements can be terminated by operating partner with prior notice, regardless of the stated term. While at times operating agreements technically expire, we endeavor to work with the partner to renew the agreement while continuing to operate pursuant to the most recent contract terms, based on historic and on-going course of dealings with the partner. As certain agreements expire, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into new agreements that provide for the same terms as those previously agreed upon, if at all. Thus, we are subject to the risk of operating partner terminations and the failure or refusal of certain of our operating partners to renew their existing agreements. While we have no customers or operating partner locations that separately account for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, we do have a number of customers and operating partner locations with significant volume and stature, the loss of one or more of which could materially and negatively impact our ability to 7 retain and service our customers. We will need to expand our existing relationships and enter into new relationships in order to increase our current and future market share and revenue. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain and expand our existing operating partner relationships or enter into new operating partner relationships, or that new or renewed operating partner relationships will be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing operating partner relationships, renew existing operating partner relationships, or enter into new operating partner relationships, we may lose customers, customer introductions and co-marketing benefits, and our operating results may suffer significantly. We are a non-asset based transportation and logistics services company. As a result, we depend on a variety of asset-based third-party carriers, whose actions we do not directly control. The quality and profitability of our services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third-party carriers. Changes in the financial stability, operating capabilities and capacity of our third-party carriers could affect us in unpredictable ways, including volatility in pricing and challenge our ability to remain profitable. Any determination that our third-party carriers have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. If our operating partners fail to maintain adequate reserves against unpaid customer invoices, or if we are unable to offset against amounts payable by us to our operating partners for unpaid customer invoices, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue pursuant to agreements with independently-owned operating partners operating under our various brands. Under these agreements, each individual operating partner office is responsible for some or all of the bad debt expense related to the underlying customers being serviced by the office. To support this arrangement, each operating partner is required to maintain a security deposit with us that is recognized as a liability in our financial statements and used as a bad debt reserve for each operating partner. We charge each operating partner’s bad debt reserve account for any accounts receivable aged beyond 90 days. The bad debt reserve account is continually replenished with a portion (typically 5%-10%) of such operating partner’s weekly commission check being directed to fund this account. However, the bad debt reserve account may carry a deficit balance when amounts charged to this reserve exceed amounts otherwise available in the bad debt reserve account. In these circumstances, deficit bad debt reserve accounts are recognized as a receivable in our financial statements. Further, under the agreement with the operating partner, the operating partner is responsible for such deficits and the operating partner agreements provide that we may withhold all or a portion of future commission checks payable to the operating partner in satisfaction of any deficit balance. Currently, a number of our operating partners have a deficit balance in their bad debt reserve account totaling approximately $879,000 with one operating partner representing approximately $221,000 of that amount. We expect to replenish these funds through the future business operations of these operating partners. However, to the extent any of these operating partners were to cease operations or otherwise be unable to replenish these deficit accounts, we would be at risk of loss for any such amount. While there can be no assurance as to the amount that may be recovered in the future, based upon, among others: (i) our historic collection experience; (ii) the portion of the bad debt recoverable from the individual operating partners responsible for the account; and (iii) the anticipated recovery likely from these customers; we do not believe its exposure to these customers will be material. Failure to comply with obligations as an “indirect air carrier” could result in penalties and fines and limit our ability to ship freight. We are regulated, among other things, as “indirect air carriers” by the Transportation Security Administration of the Department of Homeland Security. These agencies provide requirements, guidance and, in some cases, administer licensing requirements and processes applicable to the freight forwarding industry. We actively monitor our compliance and the compliance of our subsidiaries with such agency requirements to ensure that we, our subsidiaries, and our operating partners satisfactorily complete applicable security requirements and satisfy applicable qualifications and implement the required policies and procedures. We rely on our operating partners offices to comply with such requirements, however, we do not actively monitor compliance by our operating partners until we are made aware that there is an inspection by such agencies or we are notified of a potential violation. These agencies generally require companies to fulfill these qualifications prior to and while operating as a freight forwarder. Failure to comply with such requirements, policies and procedures could result in penalties and fines. To date, a limited number of our operating partners have been out of compliance with the “indirect air carrier” regulations, resulting in small fines to us, which are then charged to the operating partners. While we are working with our operating partners to eliminate any additional violations, there is no assurance that additional violations will not take place, which could result in penalties or fines or, in the extreme case, limits on our ability to ship freight. 8 If we fail to enhance and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our operating partners and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may suffer a loss in our business. Increasingly, we compete for business based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site or connect electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent customers from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels and operating efficiency will decline. In addition, we expect our operating partners to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from us as customers demand the same from their supply chain services providers. If we are unable to enhance, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our operating partners and customers and protect against disruptions of our operations, our business may be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are subject to risks we cannot control. Our information technology systems are dependent upon third-party communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the internet infrastructure that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, and our ability to provide services to our customers. We are dependent on third-party carriers to transport our customers’ cargo. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our customers’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services for our customers could be adversely impacted by: shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability depends on our ability to effectively manage our cost structure as we grow the business. As we continue to increase our revenue through the expansion of our network of independent operating partners, we must maintain an appropriate cost structure to maintain and increase our profitability. While we intend to increase our revenue by increasing the number and quality of our operating partner relationships, by strategic acquisitions, and by maintaining and expanding our gross profit margins by reducing transportation costs, our profitability will be driven by our ability to manage our operating partner commissions, personnel and general and administrative costs as a function of our net revenues. There can be no assurances that we will be able to increase revenues or maintain profitability. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. As a result, our quarterly operating results are likely to continue to fluctuate. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand which can sometimes be difficult to predict or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, our revenue is, to a large degree, affected by factors that are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. 9 Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to economic trends and consumer demand that can be difficult to predict, or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. Economic recessions and other factors that reduce freight volumes could have a material adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks that may have a material impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals, and which may include the following: · A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace reduces our opportunities for growth. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be adversely affected; · Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, causing our working capital needs to increase; · A significant number of our transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers; and · We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. In addition, we have other primarily variable expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations soliciting bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our profitability, including the following: · competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, more fully developed information technology systems and greater capital resources than we do; · reduction by our competitors of their rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business; · shift in the business of shippers to asset-based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies’ trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry-wide capacity; · solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple transportation providers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors; and · establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry. There currently is a trend within our industry toward consolidation of the niche players into larger companies that are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry with global operations. 10 If we are not able to limit our liability for customers’ claims through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our customers as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or International Conventions and laws our liability to our customers for loss or damage to their goods to $20 per kilogram (approximately $9.07 per pound) and $500 per carton or customary unit, for ocean freight shipments, depending on the International Convention. For truck/land based risks, there are a variety of limits ranging from a nominal amount to full value. However, because a freight forwarder relationship to an airline or ocean carrier is that of a shipper to a carrier, the airline or ocean carrier generally assumes the same responsibility to us as we assume to our customers. When we act in the capacity of an authorized agent for an air or ocean carrier, the carrier, rather than us, assumes liability for the safe delivery of the customer’s cargo to its ultimate destination, unless due to our own errors and omissions. We have, from time to time, made payments to our customers for claims related to our services and may make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, there are limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or even disputed and such claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. We may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment (including wage-and-hour litigation relating to independent contractor drivers, sales representatives, brokerage agents and other individuals), personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. Any material litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our failure to comply with, or the costs of complying with, government regulation could negatively affect our results of operation. Our business is subject to heavy, evolving, complex and increasing regulation by national and international sources. Regulatory changes could affect the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to customers. Future regulation and our failure to comply with any applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to maintain our brand images and corporate reputation, our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the Radiant, Airgroup, Adcom, DBA and On Time brands and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other freight-forwarding companies. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands. We operate with a significant amount of indebtedness, which is secured by our accounts receivable and other assets, subject to variable interest rates and contain restrictive covenants. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness with our Lender, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future operating capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as our borrowings on our secured senior credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; · require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, buying assets or pursuing business opportunities; 11 · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and · violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations, if not cured or waived. In addition, the lender may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our Bank of America credit facility contains financial covenants that may limit current availability and impose ongoing operational limitations and risk of compliance. We currently maintain a $30.0 million revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Lender”), which includes a $2.0 million sublimit to support letters of credit. Under the terms of the credit facility, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0 in the event that availability is less than $5.0 million or an event of default was to occur. Our compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facility is particularly important given the materiality of this facility to our day-to-day operations and overall acquisition strategy. Our debt capacity, subject to the requisite collateral at an advance rate of up to 85% of eligible domestic accounts receivable and, subject to certain sub-limits, 75% of eligible accrued but unbilled receivables and eligible foreign accounts receivables, is limited to a multiple of our consolidated EBITDA (as adjusted) as measured on a trailing twelve month basis. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to secure a waiver or other relief, our financial condition would be materially weakened and our ability to fund day-to-day operations would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, we intend to employ EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as management tools to measure our historical financial performance and as a benchmark for future financial flexibility. Under our credit facility, we are prohibited from declaring and paying dividends unless: (i) there are no existing events of default under the credit facility or an event of default would not be caused by the declaration or payment of such dividend, and (ii) the amount available under the credit facility after the pro forma effect of such dividend is equal to the greater of 20% of the borrowing base under the credit facility or $5.0 million. Dependence on key personnel. For the foreseeable future, our success will depend largely on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, as well as certain of the other key executives and executives of our acquired businesses because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with vendors, customers and operating partners. We have secured employment arrangements with each of these individuals, which contain non-competition covenants that survive their actual term of employment. Nevertheless, should any of these individuals leave us, we could have difficulty replacing them with qualified individuals and it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect our operations and our profitability. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our independent contractors and transportation providers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Congress has mandated security screening of air cargo traveling on passenger airlines effective July 31, 2010, and for ocean freight, effective July 2012, which may increase costs associated with our air and freight forwarding operations. War, risk of war, or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. 12 We intend to continue growing our international operations and will become increasingly subject to variations in the international trade market. We provide services to customers engaged in international commerce, and intend to grow our international business in the coming years. For the years ended June 30, 2014 and 2013, international transportation revenue accounted for 39% and 46% of our revenue, respectively. All factors that affect international trade have the potential to expand or contract our international business and impact our operating results. For example, international trade is influenced by, among other things: · currency exchange rates and currency control regulations; · interest rate fluctuations; · changes in governmental policies, such as taxation, quota restrictions, tariffs, other forms of trade barriers and/or restrictions and trade accords; · changes in and application of international and domestic customs, trade and security regulations; · wars, strikes, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts, such as the recent conflict in the Ukraine that has led to the imposition of economic sanctions by the United States and the European Union against Russia; · natural disasters and pandemics; · changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; · changes in availability of credit; · changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products; and · increased global concerns regarding environmental sustainability. If any of the foregoing factors have a negative effect on the international trade market, we will likely suffer a decrease in our international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our international business, we are subject to certain foreign regulatory requirements, and any failure to comply with these requirements could be detrimental to our business. We provide services in parts of the world where common business practices could constitute violations of the anti-corruption laws, rules, regulations and decrees of the United States, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and of all other countries in which we conduct business; as well as trade control laws, or laws, regulations and Executive Orders imposing embargoes and sanctions; and anti-boycott laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and decrees is dependent on our employees, subcontractors, consultants, agents, third-party brokers and customers, whose individual actions could violate these laws, rules, regulations and decrees. Failure to comply could result in substantial penalties, damages to our reputation and restrictions on our ability to conduct business. In addition, any investigation or litigation related to such violations may require significant management time and could cause us to incur extensive legal and related costs, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flows. Risks Related to our Acquisition Strategy There is a scarcity of and competition for acquisition opportunities. There are a limited number of operating companies available for acquisition that we deem to be desirable targets. In addition, there is a very high level of competition among companies seeking to acquire these operating companies. We are and will continue to be a very minor participant in the business of seeking acquisitions of these types of companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities are active in acquiring interests in companies that we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us. Consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible acquisitions of these businesses. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these entities, this competition may affect the terms of completed transactions and, as a result, we may pay more than we expected for potential acquisitions. We may not be able to identify operating companies that complement our strategy, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategy, we may be unable to complete an acquisition of such a company for many reasons, including: · failure to agree on the terms necessary for a transaction, such as the purchase price; · incompatibility between our operational strategies or management philosophies with those of the potential acquiree; · competition from other acquirers of operating companies; · lack of sufficient capital to acquire a profitable logistics company; 13 · unwillingness of a potential acquiree to agree to subordinate any future payment of earn-outs or promissory notes to the payments due to our Lender; and · unwillingness of a potential acquiree to work with our management. Risks related to acquisition financing. We have a limited amount of financial resources and our ability to make additional acquisitions without securing additional financing from outside sources is limited. In order to continue to pursue our acquisition strategy, we may be required to obtain additional financing. We intend to obtain such financing through a combination of traditional debt financing or the placement of debt and equity securities. We may finance some portion of our future acquisitions by either issuing equity or by using shares of our common stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for such businesses. In the event that our common stock does not attain or maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the purchase price for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to maintain our acquisition program. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, we will not be able to complete acquisitions and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. The terms of our credit facility requires that we obtain Lender’s consent prior to securing additional debt financing. There could be circumstances in which our ability to obtain additional debt financing could be constrained if we are unable to secure such consent. Our Bank of America credit facility places certain limits on the acquisitions we may make. Under the terms of our credit facility, we may be required to obtain the Lender’s consent prior to making any additional acquisitions. We are permitted to make additional acquisitions without the consent of the Lender only if certain conditions are satisfied. These conditions include the following: (i) the absence of an event of default under the credit facility; (ii) the acquisition is consensual; (iii) the company to be acquired must be in the transportation and logistics industry, located in the United States or certain other approved jurisdictions, and have a positive EBITDA for the twelve month period most recently ended prior to such acquisitions; (iv) no debt or liens may be incurred, assumed or result from the acquisition, subject to limited exceptions; and (v) after giving effect for the funding of the acquisition, we must have undrawn availability under the credit facility of at least the greater of 20% of the borrowing base or $5,000,000. In the event we are not able to satisfy the conditions of the credit facility in connection with a proposed acquisition, we must either forego the acquisition, obtain the Lender’s consent, or retire the credit facility. This may prevent us from completing acquisitions that we determine are desirable from a business perspective and limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives. To the extent we make any material acquisitions, our earnings will be adversely affected by non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangibles, which may cause our stock price to decline. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified acquired assets and liabilities based on their fair values at the time of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible assets acquired must be allocated among identifiable intangible assets including goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The amount allocated to identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships and the like, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. We expect that this will subject us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because our business strategy focuses, in part, on growth through acquisitions, our future earnings will be subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings are derived solely from organic growth. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. Our financial statements will show that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, when, in fact, we believe they may be increasing because we are growing the value of our intangible assets (e.g. customer relationships). Because of this discrepancy, we believe our EBITDA, a measure of financial performance that does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), provides a meaningful measure of our financial performance. However, the investment community generally measures a public company’s performance by its net income. Further, the financial covenants of our credit facility adjust EBITDA to exclude costs related to share based compensation and other non-cash charges. Thus, we believe EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA, provide a meaningful measure of our financial performance. If the investment community elects to place more emphasis on net income, the future price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 14 We are not obligated to follow any particular criteria or standards for identifying acquisition candidates. Even though we have developed general acquisition guidelines, other than as required under the credit facility, we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will target businesses that we believe will provide the best potential long-term financial return for our stockholders and we will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions. Our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our management team will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to successfully implement our acquisition strategy. Subject to the restrictions contained in the credit facility, we may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to complete future acquisitions. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from the operations of acquired businesses to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on the indebtedness, then we will be required to use our capital for such payments. This will restrict our ability to make additional acquisitions. We may also be forced to sell an acquired business in order to satisfy indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably once we incur this indebtedness or that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of proceeds from the ultimate disposition of such acquired businesses to repay the indebtedness incurred to make these acquisitions. We may experience difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and assets of acquired businesses that may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. A core component of our business plan is to acquire businesses and assets in the transportation and logistics industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Such acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including: · difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; · the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · the risk of entering new markets; · the potential loss of existing or acquired operating partners following an acquisition; · the potential loss of key employees following an acquisition and the associated risk of competitive efforts from such departed personnel; · possible legal disputes with the acquired company following an acquisition; and · the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute any acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. We attempt to mitigate these risks, in part, by providing that a portion of the ultimate purchase price for each acquired operation is structured as contingent consideration (i.e. an earn-out) based on the future financial performance of the business. To the extent that an acquired operation underperforms relative to anticipated earnings levels, this will result in the recognition of a non-cash gain on the change in contingent consideration as reported in the most recent fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 in connection with the performance of the Company’s ISLA, ALBS, Marvir, IFS, On Time and PCA operations. In the alternative, to the extent an acquired operation over performs anticipated earnings levels, we will recognize a non-cash loss on change in contingent consideration. We recently acquired On Time Express, Inc. and are currently integrating its business into our operations. On October 1, 2013, we purchased 100% of the capital stock of On Time, our largest acquisition to date, which will operate as our wholly-owned subsidiary. Payment of the full purchase price is contingent upon On Time achieving certain profitability targets, which it may not be able to achieve. There can be no assurance of On Time’s ability following the acquisition to maintain and grow its revenues and operating margins in a manner consistent with its most recent operating results, our ability to integrate On Time’s operations with our historic operations, or our ability to realize cost synergies through On Time’s line-haul network, as well as the effect that the acquisition may have on On Time’s existing customers and employees. 15 Historically, On Time’s business has been dependent on a small number of customers. A significant portion of On Time’s revenues are derived from a relatively small number of customers. On Time does not have long-term contracts with such customers and the relationships could be terminated at any time. A significant loss of business from, or adverse performance by, any of On Time’s large volume customers could have a material adverse effect on On Time’s financial condition and results of operations. The failure to retain the business of these major customers may also have an adverse effect on On Time’s financial results if we are unable to replace these customers or if new customers are not as profitable. On Time is also subject to credit risk associated with customer concentration. If one or more of its largest customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for the services provided, On Time may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable that may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are currently involved in a legal dispute emanating from recent acquisition of DBA. In December 2012, we recovered an award in arbitration against the former shareholders of DBA. The award arose out of a prior arbitration action against the former shareholders of DBA in which we asserted, among others, certain claims for indemnification under the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “DBA Agreement”) dated March 29, 2011, based upon breaches that we believe occurred under the DBA Agreement. These breaches included, among others, the breach of certain non-competition and non-solicitation covenants by Paul Pollara, one of the DBA selling shareholders, and Bretta Santini Pollara, a former DBA employee and wife of Mr. Pollara. In a related matter, in December 2011, Ms. Pollara filed a claim for declaratory relief against us seeking an order stipulating that she is not bound by the non-compete covenant contained within the DBA Agreement signed by her husband, Mr. Pollara. On January 23, 2012, we filed a counterclaim against Ms. Pollara, her company Santini Productions, Daniel Reffner (a former employee of the Company now working for Ms. Pollara), and Oceanair, Inc. (a company doing business with Santini Productions). Our counterclaim alleges claims for, among others, statutory and common law misappropriation of trade secrets, and sought damages in excess of $1,000,000. On April 25, 2014, a jury returned a verdict in our favor in the amount of $1,500,000, but the judge entered a judgment notwithstanding the verdict and dismissed the case. We have filed an appeal of the judge’s ruling and expect the appeal to be heard by the summer of 2015. Risks Related to our Common Stock Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (“DGCL”) could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting shares (an “interested stockholder”) for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding shares and that amendments to our bylaws require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our Board of Directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting. Trading in our common stock has been limited and there is no significant trading market for our common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE MKT, it may remain relatively illiquid, or “thinly traded.” Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements, general conditions in the industry and the financial markets, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 16 The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We have completed several acquisitions which often include the issuance of additional shares pursuant to the purchase agreements. Since June 30, 2013 we have issued approximately 280,591 unregistered shares of our common stock as part of the purchase price, or associated with the financing of a transaction. In addition, we may issue additional shares in connection with such acquisitions upon the achievement of certain earn-out thresholds. The availability of those shares for sale to the public under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at prices we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions which will make it more difficult to execute our acquisition strategy. The issuance of additional shares may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. We currently have in place a universal shelf registration statement which allows us to publicly issue up to $75 million of additional securities, including debt, common stock, preferred stock, and warrants. The shelf registration is intended to provide greater flexibility to us in financing growth or changing our capital structure. At any time we may make private offerings of our securities. We have issued, and may be required to issue, additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents in payment of the purchase price of businesses we have acquired. This will have the effect of further increasing the number of shares outstanding. In connection with future acquisitions, we may undertake the issuance of more shares of common stock without notice to our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares in order to, among other things, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons in the discretion of our Board of Directors, which could result in diluting the interests of our existing stockholders. The exercise or conversion of our outstanding options, warrants or other convertible securities or any derivative securities we issue in the future will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue 100 million shares of common stock. As of September 19, 2014, we had 34,391,805 outstanding shares of common stock. We may in the future issue up to 5,275,044 additional shares of our common stock upon exercise of existing options. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms for those shares without the approval of our stockholders. Any such preferred stock we may issue in the future could rank ahead of our common stock in many ways, including in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, and voting rights. As we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock, investors in our shares of common stock will not receive any dividend income. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any dividends that we may pay in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our future earnings, any applicable regulatory considerations, our financial requirements and other similarly unpredictable factors. Our ability to pay dividends is further limited by the terms of our credit facility. Accordingly, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our stock. From time to time, we publish certain forward-looking information regarding our future anticipated performance, which information may be materially different than our actual future results. From time to time, we publish certain forward-looking information regarding our future anticipated performance, including guidance with respect to our estimated future revenues and profits. This forward-looking information is not a guaranty and is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking information. While it is impossible to identify all of the factors that may cause our actual operating performance, events, trends or plans to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking information, such factors include the inherent risks associated with our recent and future acquisitions, our operations, management and other outside competitive and economic influences on our business. Important factors with regard to our recent acquisitions that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations, include but are not limited to: our ability to maintain the future operations of our recently acquired businesses in a manner consistent with their past practices; our recently acquired businesses will be able to maintain and grow their revenues and operating margins in a manner consistent with their most recent results of operations; our ability to integrate the operations of such businesses with our existing operations, as well as our ability to realize expected financial and operational cost and 17 revenue synergies through such integration; our reliance on the acquired management teams and the continued customer relationships provided by the acquired businesses; the effect that these acquisitions will have on their existing customers and employees; the effect that the acquisitions will have on our historic and existing network of locations; and any material adverse change in the composition of their customers. Important additional factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to, our ability to: use our Bellevue, Washington operations as a “platform” upon which we can build a profitable global transportation and supply chain management company; retain and build upon the relationships we have with our operating partners; continue the development of our back-office infrastructure and transportation and accounting systems in a manner sufficient to service our expanding revenues and network of operating locations; maintain and enhance the future operations of our company owned operating locations; continue growing our business and maintain historical or increased gross profit margins; locate suitable acquisition opportunities; secure the financing necessary to complete any acquisition opportunities we locate; assess and respond to competitive practices in the industries in which we compete; mitigate, to the best extent possible, our dependence on current management and certain of our larger operating partners; assess and respond to the impact of current and future laws and governmental regulations affecting the transportation industry in general and our operations in particular; and assess and respond to such other factors that may be identified from time to time in our SEC filings and other public announcements. Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Risks Related to our 9.75% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Shares”). We cannot assure you that quarterly dividends on, or any other payments in respect of, the Series A Preferred Shares will be made timely or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay quarterly dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares, if we wanted to do so. Quarterly dividends on our Series A Preferred Shares will be paid from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our board of directors. You should be aware that certain factors may influence our decision, or adversely affect our ability, to pay dividends on, or make other payments in respect of, our Series A Preferred Shares, including, among other things: · the amount of our available cash or other liquid assets, including the impact of any liquidity shortfalls caused by the below-described restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate and transfer cash to us; · any of the events described our filings with the SEC or the documents incorporated by reference herein or therein that impact our future financial position or performance; · our ability to service and refinance our current and future indebtedness; · changes in our cash requirements to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other operational or strategic initiatives; · our ability to borrow or raise additional capital to satisfy our capital needs; · restrictions imposed by our existing, or any future, credit facilities, debt securities or leases, including restricted payment and leverage covenants that could limit our ability to make payments to holders of the Series A Preferred Shares; and · limitations on cash payments to shareholders under Delaware law, including limitations that require dividend payments be made out of surplus or, subject to certain limitations, out of net profits for the then-current or preceding year in the event there is no surplus. Based on its evaluation of these and other relevant factors, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decide not to declare a dividend on the Series A Preferred Shares for any quarterly period for any reason, regardless of whether we have funds legally available for such purpose. In such event, the sole recourse will be the rights as a holder of Series A Preferred Shares specified in the certificate of designation for such shares, including the right to cumulative dividends and the further right under certain specified circumstances to additional interest and limited conditional voting rights. In addition, under our credit facility, we are prohibited from declaring and paying dividends unless: (i) there are no existing events of default under the credit facility or an event of default would not be caused by the declaration or payment of such dividend, and (ii) the amount available under the credit facility after the pro forma effect of such dividend is equal to the greater of 20% of the borrowing base under the credit facility or $5.0 million. 18 The Series A Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests. The Series A Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests in us and, unlike our indebtedness, will not entitle the holders thereof to receive payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Series A Preferred Shares may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Series A Preferred Shares for an indefinite period of time. In addition, the Series A Preferred Shares will rank junior to all our indebtedness and other liabilities, and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the trading price of our Series A Preferred Shares. One of the factors that will influence the trading price of our Series A Preferred Shares will be the dividend yield on the Series A Preferred Shares relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may reduce demand for our Series A Preferred Shares and would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Accordingly, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our Series A Preferred Shares to decrease. The Series A Preferred Shares have not been rated, and the lack of a rating may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Shares. We have not sought to obtain a rating for the Series A Preferred Shares, and the shares may never be rated. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Series A Preferred Shares or that we may elect to obtain a rating of our Series A Preferred Shares in the future. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. The market value of the Series A Preferred Shares could be adversely affected if: · any ratings assigned to the Series A Preferred Shares in the future or to other securities we issue in the future are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, or · ratings for such other securities would imply a lower relative value for the Series A Preferred Shares. Our Series A Preferred Shares are junior to our debt liabilities and lease obligations, the debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and third-party holders’ of equity interests in our subsidiaries and the interests could be diluted by our issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including additional Series A Preferred Shares, and by other transactions. Our Series A Preferred Shares are subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness and lease obligations. As of June 30, 2014, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness and liabilities of approximately $79.0 million, all of which is senior in right of payment to the Series A Preferred Shares. Our existing indebtedness restricts, and our future indebtedness may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to preferred shareholders. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and we will be permitted, without notice to or consent of the holders of Series A Preferred Shares, to issue additional Series A Preferred Shares or other securities that have rights junior to such shares, up to the maximum aggregate number of authorized shares of our preferred stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on a parity with or senior to our Series A Preferred Shares would dilute the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, and any issuance of preferred stock senior to or on a parity with our Series A Preferred Shares or of additional indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our Series A Preferred Shares. Except in limited circumstances, no provisions relating to our Series A Preferred Shares protect the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, any of which might adversely affect the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares. Holders of Series A Preferred Shares have extremely limited voting rights. The voting rights of Series A Preferred Shares is extremely limited. However, in the event that six quarterly dividends, whether consecutive or not, payable on Series A Preferred Shares are in arrears or a listing failure has occurred and is continuing, the holders of Series A Preferred Shares will have the right, voting together as a class with all other classes or series of parity securities upon which like voting rights have conferred and are exercisable, to elect two additional directors to serve on our board of directors. 19 Investors should not expect us to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares on the date the Series A Preferred Shares becomes redeemable by the Company or on any particular date afterwards. The shares of Series A Preferred Shares have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of investors under any circumstances. By their terms, the Series A Preferred Shares may be redeemed by us at our option either in whole or in part at any time on or after December 20, 2018 or, under certain circumstances, may be redeemed by us at our option, in whole, sooner than that date. Any decision we may make at any time regarding whether to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares will depend upon a wide variety of factors, including our evaluation of our capital position, our capital requirements and general market conditions at that time. You should not assume that we will redeem the Series A Preferred Shares at any particular time, or at all. The Series A Preferred Shares are not convertible and purchasers may not realize a corresponding benefit if the trading price of our common stock rises. The Series A Preferred Shares will not be convertible into common shares or other of our securities and will not have exchange rights or be entitled or subject to any preemptive or similar rights. In addition, the Series A Preferred Shares will earn dividends at a fixed rate (subject to adjustment). Accordingly, as noted in greater detail above, the market value of the Series A Preferred Shares may depend on, among other things, dividend and interest rates for other securities and other investment alternatives and our actual and perceived ability to make dividend or other payments in respect of our Series A Preferred Shares. Moreover, our right to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares on or after December 20, 2018 or in the event of a change in control could impose a ceiling on their value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 