ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price or value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When making an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our "Project RED" initiatives may not be successful or achieve the desired results, if at all, in a timely fashion. In 2011, we began implementing a series of strategic initiatives known as "Project Red". These strategic initiatives are designed to both improve the Company's results in the short term and create sustainable growth in the long term. These initiatives focus on many segments of the Company's business, including, among other things, revenue generation, expense management and deployment of capital. There is no assurance that these initiatives and the projects undertaken to accomplish such initiatives will be successful, or that the Company has, or will have sufficient resources to successfully implement, sustain results from, or achieve any of the expected benefits of "Project RED". 12 Table of Contents We are dependent on information technology, which may be inadequate to support our future growth strategies, and any material failure in the operations or upgrade of such technology could impair our ability to efficiently operate our business. We rely on information systems in all aspects of our operations, including (but not limited to) point-of-sale transaction processing in our restaurants; operation of our restaurant kitchens; management of our inventories; collection of cash; payment of payroll and other obligations; and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of our in-house information systems and those technology services and systems for which we contract for from third parties. We have recently committed to a significant capital investment to upgrade and expand such systems and services. If the upgrade and expansion of such systems and services are unsuccessful or otherwise do not accomplish our intended goals, our operations could be significantly impacted, which could result in, among other things, dissatisfaction among our customers, and inadequate levels of inventory. We may experience some material interruptions in connection with the upgrade of our systems and services and the stabilization thereof. Despite the significant capital investment to upgrade the systems and service identified above, these new systems and services will continue over time to evolve and require upgrading over time, consequently requiring significant commitments of resources and capital to maintain and upgrade. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery programs, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits. Significant capital investment might be required to remediate any problems, infringements, misappropriations or other third party claims. Our new marketing and branding strategies may not be successful, which could adversely impact our business. Over the past year we have been refocusing our marketing and branding strategy. As part of this initiative, we intend to continue using a national cable television advertising campaign to promote new products offered on a limited time basis. In addition, we have introduced a unique loyalty program, "Red Royalty", and throughout 2011 and beyond, we intend to focus on targeting adult guests and improving alcohol beverage sales. We do not have any assurance that our latest marketing strategies will be successful. If new advertising, modified branding and other marketing programs do not drive increased restaurant sales, the expense associated with these programs will adversely impact our financial results, and we may not generate the levels of comparable restaurant sales we expect. Moreover, many of our competitors have successfully used national marketing strategies, including network and cable television advertising in the past, and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs. Uncertainty regarding the economic recovery may negatively affect consumer spending and have adversely impacted our revenues and our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Current uncertainty regarding economic conditions and the existence and rate of any economic recovery may have an adverse effect on the businesses, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its customers, distributors and suppliers. These conditions include continued unemployment, weakness and lack of consistent improvement in the housing markets; downtrend or delays in residential or commercial real estate development; volatility in financial markets; inflationary pressures and reduced consumer confidence. As a result, our customers may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their already lowered level of discretionary spending. This could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and potentially negatively affecting our operating results. We believe there is a risk that prolonged negative economic 13 Table of Contents conditions might cause consumers to make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Moreover, our restaurants are primarily located near high activity areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. A decline in development or closures of businesses in these existing centers or a decline in visitors to the centers near our restaurants or in discretionary consumer spending could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various risks and unexpected circumstances, increases in costs, seasonality, weather, and other factors outside our control. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual quarterly and annual results to fluctuate significantly or be impacted negatively. These risks include but are not limited to: extended periods of inclement weather which may affect guest visits as well as limit the availability and cost of key commodities such as beef, poultry, potatoes and other items that are important ingredients in our products or material disruptions in our supply chain; changes in borrowings and interest rates; changes to accounting methods or philosophies; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and losses on restaurant closures; unanticipated expenses from natural disasters and repairs to damaged or lost property. Moreover, our business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the summer months and winter holiday season. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. Decreased cash flow from operations, or an inability to access our revolving credit agreement could adversely impact our business initiatives or may result in our inability to execute our revenue, expense and capital deployment strategies. Our ability to fund our operating plans and to implement our capital deployment strategies depends on sufficient cash flow from operations or other financing, including using funding under our revolving credit agreement. Our strategies include but are not limited to repurchases of our stock, paying down debt, new restaurant development, investment in advertising, and franchise expansion. If we experience decreased cash flow from operations, our ability to fund our operations and planned initiatives, and to take advantage of growth opportunities, may be delayed or adversely affected. In addition, these disruptions or a negative impact on our revenues could adversely affect our ability to access or comply with our covenants under our credit facility. Moreover, any repurchase by us of our shares of common stock will further reduce cash available for operations and future growth. If we do not successfully manage the transitions associated with our new CEO, it could have an adverse impact on our revenues, operations, or results of operations. On September 13, 2010, we announced the appointment of our new CEO, Stephen E. Carley. Our success will be dependent upon his ability to gain proficiency in leading our Company, his ability to implement or adapt our corporate strategies and initiatives, and his ability to develop key professional relationships, including relationships with our team members, guests, franchisees and other key constituencies and business partners. Our new CEO could make organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make future changes to our Company's structure. It is important for us to manage successfully these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. 14 Table of Contents The Company faces various risks associated with shareholder activists. Several activist shareholders have publicly advocated for certain changes at the Company. Such activist shareholders or potential shareholders may attempt to gain additional representation on or control of our board of directors, the possibility of which may create uncertainty regarding the direction of our business. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. A potential proxy contest would be disruptive to our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs. The SEC has recently proposed to give shareholders the ability to include their director nominees and their proposals relating to a shareholder nomination process in Company proxy materials, which would make it easier for activists to nominate directors to our board of directors. If the SEC implements its proxy access proposal, we may face an increase in the number of shareholder nominees for election to our board of directors. Future proxy contests and the presence of additional activist shareholder nominees on our board of directors could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. Our ability to utilize or refinance our credit facility and our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in our operating plans and strategic initiatives, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses, or other events, including those described in this section, may cause us to seek additional debt financing on an accelerated basis. Our current credit agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, engage in mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, and sale-leaseback transactions, and to sell assets, incur indebtedness, make investments, create liens, and pay dividends. Our credit agreement also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests and to reduce the principal outstanding balance on our term loan on a quarterly basis with full repayment of the credit facility on June 15, 2012. These restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. In addition, the ability of our lenders to honor their commitments under the credit facility may be diminished during the economic recovery. We may be unable to refinance our current credit agreement or to refinance it on favorable terms. Our current credit agreement matures on June 15, 2012. While we have been exploring a variety of alternatives to take advantage of the current low interest rate environment, we may be unable to obtain financing in a timely manner, if at all, or to obtain the amount we need or on terms equivalent to or better than our current terms. Such financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants and/or financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate our business or implement future plans. If we are unable to refinance our credit facility, we may not have sufficient cash or resources to fund our operations or to take advantage of other business opportunities that may arise. Our success depends on our ability to compete effectively in the restaurant industry. Competition in the restaurant industry is increasingly intense. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurant chains and individual restaurants that range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets from high growth targeted concepts in the quick serve and fast casual space to the well-capitalized national restaurant companies. Many of these concepts are expanding faster than us and are penetrating both geographic and demographic markets that we target as well. Moreover, many of these concepts compete with us for locations, often with smaller building units, which may allow for greater flexibility in site selection and market penetration. We also compete with other restaurants and with retail establishments for real estate. Many of our 15 Table of Contents competitors are well established in the casual dining market segment and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. Accordingly, they may be better equipped than us to increase marketing or to take other measures to maintain their competitive position, including the use of significant discount offers to attract guests. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact our results of operations. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our restaurants compete on the basis of a varied menu and feature burgers, salads, soups, appetizers, other entrees, such as fajitas and pasta, desserts, and our signature alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in a family-friendly atmosphere. One of our strategies moving forward is to shift to a balance between family-friendly and adult-focused guest experiences, referencing our historical legacy. There is no assurance that this balanced focus will be successful or that it will not negatively impact our family guest experience. Moreover, our continued success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of these foods and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, competitors' use of significant advertising and food discounting could influence our guests' dining choices Further, changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. Changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the federal government agencies, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by other federal, state or local municipalities, or academic studies, among other things, may impact consumer choice and cause consumers to select foods other than those that are offered by our restaurants. Price increases may negatively impact guest visits. We are expecting to take about a 1.5% price increase in April 2011 in order to offset increased operating expenses. While we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our price increases in 2008 and prior periods, we cannot provide assurance that the planned 2011 price increase and any future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants, reduce the frequency of their visits, or affect their purchasing decisions. Approximately 48% of our Company-owned restaurants are located in the Western United States and, as a result, we are sensitive to economic and other trends and developments in this region. As of December 26, 2010, a total of 149 or 47.5% of all Company-owned restaurants, representing 55.1% of restaurant revenue, were located in the western United States (i.e., Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Idaho and Washington). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this region, including its labor market. In recent years, California, Arizona and Nevada have been more negatively impacted by the housing downturn and the overall economic recession than other geographic areas. As a result, we have seen a more substantial decline in guest traffic at our restaurants in the western United States, which has had a negative effect on our operations as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the western United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages, or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters. 16 Table of Contents A shift to a lower emphasis on expanding our restaurant base as a critical part of our long-term success may negatively affect our growth and results of operations. We have in the recent past considered the expansion of our restaurant base as a critical part of our long-term success. Although we continue to have confidence in development of new restaurants, due to a number of factors including better performance and reduced unit cost, we are limiting our new Company-owned restaurant growth for at least the next two years while we explore improvements to our unit design and other opportunities and review ways to maximize capital deployment. Consequently, we may miss opportunities to obtain optimum building sites or locations for our restaurants. Further, because we may devote restaurant development resources to other Company projects, we may be further delayed in ramping up development at an opportune time, which may negatively affect our ability to grow and support operations. Our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open and profitably operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control. Our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •continued unstable, negative macroeconomic factors nationally and regionally that impact restaurant-level performance and influence our decisions on the rate of expansion, timing, and the number of restaurants to be opened; •identification and ability to secure an adequate supply of available and suitable restaurant sites; •negotiation of favorable lease and construction terms; •cost and availability of capital to fund restaurant expansion and operation; •the availability of construction materials and labor; •our ability to manage construction and development costs of new restaurants; •timely adherence to development schedules; •securing required governmental approvals and permits and in a timely manner; •availability and retention of qualified operating personnel to staff our new restaurants, especially managers; •competition in our markets and general economic conditions that may affect consumer spending or choice; •our ability to attract and retain guests; and •our ability to operate at acceptable profit margins. New or less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue for six months or more. New and less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and percentage of revenue initially when compared to restaurants in the comparable restaurant base. Although the average unit volumes and restaurant level profit margins for each successive new restaurant classes since 2009 have continued to outperform comparable restaurants, there is no assurance that new restaurants will continue to experience such successes. Our restaurants are currently taking approximately six months or more to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often significantly greater during the first several months of operation. Further, some or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. 17 Table of Contents Restaurant expansion through further penetrating existing markets could cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our areas of highest concentration are California, Colorado, North Carolina, Ohio, Virginia, and Washington. We expect that approximately 70% of our new restaurants to be opened in 2011 will be in our existing markets. Because we typically draw guests from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and guest counts for existing restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to the opening of the new restaurant. If our franchisees cannot develop or finance new restaurants, build them on suitable sites, or open them on schedule, our growth and success may be impeded. Some of our franchisees depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing, it could adversely affect the number and rate of new restaurant openings by our franchisees and adversely affect our future franchise revenues. Under our current form of area development agreement, franchisees must develop a predetermined number of restaurants in their area according to a schedule that lasts for the term of their development agreement. Given the current economic environment, franchisees may not have access to the financing and management resources they need to open the restaurants required by their development schedules or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them. Franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. From time to time in the past, we have agreed to extend or modify development schedules for certain area developers, and we may do so in the future. Any such extensions or modifications may have a negative effect on revenues we realize from franchise operations. Our operations are susceptible to the changes in cost and availability of food which could adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products, and seasonality, as well as the impact of the current macroeconomic environment on our suppliers, may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply chain. Changes in the price or availability of commodities for which we do not have fixed price contracts could materially adversely affect our profitability. Expiring contracts with our food suppliers could also result in unfavorable renewal terms and therefore increase costs associated with these suppliers or may even necessitate negotiations with alternate suppliers. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by negotiating more favorable contract terms with suppliers or by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, because we provide a "value-priced" product, we may not be able to pass along food cost increases to our guests in the form of menu price increases. In addition, the ability of our suppliers to meet our supply requirements upon favorable terms, if at all, may be impacted by the economic recovery. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Franchisees are independent entities and are not our employees, partners, or affiliates. We share with our franchisees what we believe to be best practices in the restaurant industry; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. While we 18 Table of Contents try to ensure that the quality of our brand and compliance with our operating standards, and the confidentiality thereof, are maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that our franchisees will avoid actions that adversely affect the reputation of Red Robin or the value of our proprietary information. Our image and reputation and the image and reputation of other franchisees may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate these restaurants according to our standards. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property, including the Red Robin America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits,® name and logo. Although we have registered trademarks for Red Robin®, America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits® and Mad Mixology®, "YUMMM®", among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in Canada, our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how in operating our restaurants, and we employ various methods to protect those trade secrets and that proprietary know-how. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts and recipes. Consequently, our business could be adversely impacted and less profitable if we are unable to successfully defend and protect our intellectual property. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken, or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about food-related illness, the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity or publication of government or industry findings concerning food quality, illness and injury. Further, consumers may react negatively to reports concerning our food products or health or other concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more of our restaurants. Such negative publicity, whether or not valid, may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in decreased guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to extensive government regulation that may adversely hinder or impact our ability to govern various aspects of our business including our ability to expand and develop our restaurants. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local government regulations, including those relating to the food safety and nutritional disclosure, alcoholic beverage control, public accommodations, and public health and safety. These regulations are subject to continual changes and updating. Difficulties or failures in obtaining or maintaining the required licenses and approvals or maintaining compliance with existing or newly enacted requirements could delay the opening or affect the continued operation and profitability of one or more restaurants in a particular area. We are also subject to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage control or dram shop regulations could subject the Company to liability and could adversely affect our business. Various federal and state employment laws govern our relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws govern minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, labor relations, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct. Additional government-imposed 19 Table of Contents increases in federal and state minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence, and mandated health benefits, increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for team members who receive tips, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could harm our operating results. We are also subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that franchise materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in the state. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively impact our business. There has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change recently, including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies globally. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters, such as the emission of greenhouse gases. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the United States to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities, which could decrease our operating profits and could necessitate future additional investments in facilities and equipment. We are unable to predict the potential effects that any such future environmental initiatives may have on the business as those effects are likely to be complex. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury, or other food quality, health, or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In fact, we are subject to the same risks of adverse publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim actually involves one of our franchisees. In addition, any failure by us to comply with the various federal and state labor laws governing our relationship with our team members including requirements pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct, may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. The possibility of a material adverse effect on our business relating to employment litigation is even more pronounced given the high concentration of team members employed in the western United States, as this region, and California in particular, has a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. Further, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, and compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Act. The impact of the U.S. health care reform will be phased in between 2011 20 Table of Contents and 2014 and likely will have a significant adverse impact on our costs of providing employee health benefits beginning in 2011. As with any significant government action, the provisions of the health care reform legislation are still being assessed and may have additional financial accounting and reporting ramifications. The impact of any such changes, which we continue to evaluate on our business operations and financial statements, remains uncertain. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 