ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully read and consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The trading price or value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. When making an investment decision with respect to our common stock, you should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Our business improvement initiatives may not continue to be successful or achieve the desired results, in a timely fashion. We continue to evolve our business improvement initiatives that are designed to both improve the Company's results in the short term and create sustainable growth in the long term. These initiatives continue to focus on enhancing our guest experience to increase top line revenue, improving operating efficiency and expense management, and growing our restaurant base through new company-owned restaurants. They include our initiatives to elevate our guest experience with enhancements to our brand and to upgrade our information technology systems, and the development of varying size restaurant prototypes to expand our ability to grow our restaurant base. While many of these initiatives have been implemented in various stages and are generating positive results, there is no assurance that these initiatives and the projects undertaken to accomplish such initiatives will continue to be successful, or that the Company has, or will have sufficient resources to fully and successfully implement, sustain results from, or achieve additional expected benefits from them. Our marketing and branding strategies to attract, engage and retain our guests may not be successful, which could negatively affect our business. We continue to evolve our marketing and branding strategies in order to appeal to customers and compete effectively to attract, engage and retain customers. Our unique loyalty program, "Red Robin Royalty™" has experienced some success in driving sales and guest counts by providing loyal guests with various incentives and rewards for repeat visits. We also intend to continue our focus on serving families while targeting adult occasions, and to grow beverage and food sales, including alcoholic beverages, appetizers, and desserts, through menu and service enhancements. We do not have any assurance that our marketing strategies will be successful. If new advertising, modified branding, and other marketing programs and methods are not successful, we may not generate the level of restaurant sales we expect and the expense associated with these programs may negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, many of our competitors have larger marketing resources and have successfully used similar national marketing strategies, including more extensive media usage, and we may not be able to successfully compete against those established programs. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms such as Facebook® and Twitter® to attract and retain guests. There are a variety of risks associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about the Company, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or out-of-date 13 information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our guests or team members could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation. Our success depends on our ability to effectively compete in the restaurant industry to attract and retain guests. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense and barriers to entry are low. Our competitors include a large and diverse group of restaurants in all segments ranging from quick serve and fast casual to "polished casual" and those verging on fine dining. These competitors range from independent local operators that have opened restaurants in various markets, high growth targeted "better" burger concepts in the quick serve and fast casual space, to the well-capitalized national restaurant companies. Many of these concepts have already captured segments of the market that we are targeting, such as adult-only occasions, and are expanding faster than we are, penetrating both desirable geographic and demographic markets. Many of our competitors are well established in the casual dining market segment and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. Accordingly, they may be better equipped than us to increase marketing or to take other measures to maintain their competitive position, including the use of significant discount offers to attract guests. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for real estate and attractive locations. These concepts often require smaller building units, which may provide them with greater flexibility in site selection and market penetration. We are testing smaller prototype restaurants and formats to improve our competitive position. There is no assurance that these smaller prototypes will successfully compete with other restaurant concepts. Uncertainty regarding the continued weakness in the economic environment may negatively affect consumer spending and guest visits, which may negatively affect our revenues and our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. Continued uncertainty regarding economic conditions and the rate of economic recovery affects the restaurant industry, and may negatively affect the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its customers, distributors, and suppliers. These conditions include continued unemployment, weakness and lack of consistent improvement in the housing markets; downtrend or delays in residential or commercial real estate development; volatility in financial markets; inflationary pressures; and reduced consumer confidence. As a result, our guests may continue to remain apprehensive about the economy and maintain or further reduce their level of discretionary spending. This could affect the frequency with which our guests choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals, thereby decreasing our revenues and potentially negatively affecting our operating results. We believe there is a risk that prolonged negative or uncertain economic conditions might cause consumers to make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis, which would have a negative effect on our business. Moreover, our restaurants are primarily located near high density retail areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. A decline in development or closures of businesses in these settings or a decline in visitors to retail areas near our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our operations are susceptible to the changes in cost and availability of food which could negatively affect our operating results. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, production, availability, recalls of food products, and seasonality, as well as the effects of the current macroeconomic environment on our suppliers, may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our 14 supply chain. In an effort to mitigate some of this risk, we have entered into fixed price agreements on some of our food and beverage products, including certain proteins, produce and cooking oil. As of the end of fiscal year 2012, approximately 40% of our estimated annual food and beverage purchases were covered by fixed price contracts, most of which are scheduled to expire at various times during fiscal year 2013. Changes in the price or availability of commodities for which we do not have fixed price contracts could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. Expiring contracts with our food suppliers could also result in unfavorable renewal terms and therefore increase costs associated with these suppliers or may necessitate negotiations with alternate suppliers. We may be unable to obtain favorable contract terms with suppliers or adjust our purchasing practices and menu prices to respond to changing food costs, and a failure to do so could negatively affect our operating results. Price increases may negatively affect guest visits. We may make future price increases, primarily to offset increased costs and operating expenses. While we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our price increases in the past, we cannot provide assurance that any future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants, reduce the frequency of their visits, or affect their purchasing decisions. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively affect our results of operations. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. Our restaurants compete on the basis of a varied menu and feature burgers, salads, soups, appetizers, other entrees, desserts, and our signature alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in a family-friendly atmosphere. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of these foods and this style of casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, competitors' use of significant advertising and food discounting could influence our guests' dining choices. One of our strategies moving forward is to shift to a balance between our legacy of being family-friendly and adult-focused guest experiences, referencing our legacy. There is no assurance that this shift will be successful or that it will not negatively affect our family guest experience. Further, changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid our products in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry as a whole rests on consumer preferences and demographic trends at the local, regional, national and international levels, and the effect on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. New laws requiring additional nutritional information to be disclosed on our menus, changes in nutritional guidelines issued by the federal government agencies, issuance of similar guidelines or statistical information by other federal, state or local municipalities, or academic studies, among other things, may affect consumer choice and cause consumers to significantly alter their dining choices in ways that adversely affect our sales and profitability. We are dependent on information technology to operate our business. If we are unable to successfully complete the implementation of our upgraded information technology systems, or there is a material failure in such systems, we may not receive the benefits of this technology could negatively impact or impair our business operations and profits could be negatively affected, and our systems may be inadequate to support our future growth strategies. We rely heavily on information technology systems in all aspects of our operations including our restaurant point-of-sale systems, marketing programs, employee engagement, supply chain management, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage and run our business depends on the reliability and capacity of our information technology systems, including technology services and systems for which we contract from third parties. 15 In order to increase efficiency and operational capabilities and to support growth, we committed to a significant capital investment to upgrade and expand our information technology systems and services. If the expansion and stabilization of such systems and services, which are currently underway, are materially delayed, unsuccessful or otherwise do not accomplish our intended goals, our operations could be significantly affected, and, among other things, our ability to efficiently manage or scale material functions in our operations could be impaired. Despite the significant capital investment to upgrade the systems and services identified above, these new systems and services may be insufficient to achieve or continue to achieve the expected results. These systems and our business needs will continue to evolve and require upgrading and maintenance over time, consequently requiring additional significant future commitments of resources and capital. The failure of or security breach involving our information technology systems could interrupt our business, damage our reputation and negatively affect our operations and profits. Our information technology systems, communication systems and electronic data could be subject or vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, loss of data, unauthorized data breaches or other attempts to harm our systems. A failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or any other failure to maintain a continuous and secure cyber network could result in interruption to our services, adversely affect our reputation, and negatively impact our results of operations. Moreover, we accept electronic payment cards from our guests for payment in our restaurants. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and team members. A number of restaurant operators and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen. If we experienced a security breach, we could become subject to claims, lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the theft of credit or debit card information, compromised security and information systems, failure of our employees to comply with applicable laws, the unauthorized acquisition or use of such information by third parties, or other similar claims. Any such incidents or proceedings could adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations, and could result in the imposition of penalties or cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenditures, including those necessary to remediate any damage to persons whose personal information may have been compromised. Because of the number of credit card transactions processed in our Company-owned stores, we are required to maintain the highest level of Payment Card Industry ("PCI") Data Security Standard compliance at our corporate offices and Company-owned stores. If we do not maintain the required level of PCI compliance, we could be subject to costly fines or additional fees from the card brands that we accept, or lose our ability to accept those payment cards. Our franchisees are separate businesses that have different levels of compliance required depending on the number of credit card transactions processed. If any failure by them to maintain the appropriate level of PCI compliance negatively impacts their business operations, we could face a loss of or reduction in royalties or other payments they are required to remit to us. Expanding our restaurant base is critical to our long-term growth, and our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants is subject to factors beyond our control. Our initiatives include a focus on continued growth of our restaurant base through new company-owned restaurants. The expansion of our restaurant base depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to timely and efficiently open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants, or the inability to profitably operate them once opened, could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The 16 success of our expansion strategy and the success of new restaurants depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •improvement in the unstable, macroeconomic environment nationally and regionally that affects restaurant-level performance and influences our decisions on the rate of expansion, timing, and the number of restaurants to be opened; •identification of and ability to secure an adequate supply of available and suitable restaurant sites; •negotiation of favorable lease and construction terms; •cost and availability of capital to fund restaurant expansion and operation; •the availability of construction materials and labor; •our ability to manage construction and development costs of new restaurants; •timely adherence to development schedules; •securing required governmental approvals and permits and in a timely manner; •availability and retention of qualified operating personnel to staff our new restaurants, especially managers; •competition in our markets and general economic conditions that may affect consumer spending or choice; •our ability to attract and retain guests; and •our ability to operate at acceptable profit margins. New or less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue for six months or more. New and less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and percentage of revenue initially when compared to restaurants in the comparable restaurant base. Although the average unit volumes and restaurant level profit margins have performed well on average in recent years, there is no assurance that new restaurants will continue to experience such successes, given the uncertain state of the economy. Our restaurants are currently taking approximately six months or more to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often significantly greater during the first several months of operation and fluctuating guest counts. Further, there is no assurance that our less mature restaurants will attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. The large number of Company-owned restaurants concentrated in the western United States makes us susceptible to changes in economic and other trends in that region and restaurant expansion in our existing markets could erode sales of our existing restaurants. As of December 30, 2012, a total of 159 or 46.9% of all Company-owned restaurants, representing 52.7% of restaurant revenue, were located in the western United States (i.e., Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Idaho and Washington). As a result, we are particularly susceptible to negative trends and economic conditions in this region, including its labor market. In recent years, California, Arizona and Nevada have been more negatively affected by the housing downturn and the overall economic recession than other geographic areas. As a result of the economic recession, we had a more substantial decline in guest traffic at our restaurants in the western United States, which has had a negative effect on our operations as a whole. In addition, given our geographic concentration, negative publicity regarding any of our restaurants in the western United States could have a material 17 adverse effect on our business and operations, as could other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages, or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires, or other natural disasters. Because we typically draw guests from a relatively small radius around each of our restaurants, the sales performance and guest counts for existing restaurants near the area in which a new restaurant opens may decline due to the opening of the new restaurant. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various risks and unexpected circumstances, including increases in costs, seasonality, weather, and other factors outside our control. We are subject to a number of significant risks that might cause our actual quarterly and annual results to fluctuate significantly or be negatively affected. These risks include but are not limited to: extended periods of inclement weather which may affect guest visits as well as limit the availability and cost of key commodities such as beef, poultry, potatoes and other items that are important ingredients in our products; material disruptions in our supply chain; changes in borrowings and interest rates; changes to accounting methods or philosophies; impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, and losses on restaurant closures; unanticipated expenses from natural disasters and repairs to damaged or lost property. Moreover, our business fluctuates seasonally. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the summer months and winter holiday season. As a result, our quarterly and annual operating results and comparable restaurant sales may fluctuate significantly as a result of seasonality and the factors discussed above. Accordingly, results for any one quarter or year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and comparable restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. Decreased cash flow from operations, or an inability to access credit could negatively affect our business initiatives or may result in our inability to execute our revenue, expense and capital deployment strategies. Our ability to fund our operating plans and to implement our capital deployment strategies depends on sufficient cash flow from operations or other financing, including using funding under our revolving credit agreement. Our capital deployment strategies include but are not limited to repurchases of our stock, paying down debt, new restaurant development, our brand transformation initiative, investment in advertising, and franchise expansion. If we experience decreased cash flow from operations, our ability to fund our operations and planned initiatives, and to take advantage of growth opportunities, may be delayed or negatively affected. In addition, these disruptions or a negative effect on our revenues could affect our ability to borrow or comply with our covenants under our credit facility. Moreover, any repurchase by us of our shares of common stock will further reduce cash available for operations and future growth, as well as debt repayment. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business, expose us to liability or damage our reputation. Franchisees are independent entities and are not our employees, partners, or affiliates. We share with our franchisees what we believe to be best practices in the restaurant industry; however, franchisees operate their restaurants as independent businesses. Consequently, the quality of franchised restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Moreover, franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. In addition, as independent businesses, franchisees may not be required to comply with the same levels of business or regulatory compliance that we are. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand and compliance with our operating standards, and the confidentiality thereof, are maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot provide assurance that our franchisees will avoid actions that negatively affect the reputation of Red Robin or the value of our proprietary information. Our image and reputation 18 and the image and reputation of other franchisees may suffer materially, and system-wide sales could significantly decline if our franchisees do not operate these restaurants according to our standards. Further, we are subject to federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationship. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to liability for actions of the franchisees, or expose us to liability to franchisees, or fines and penalties for non-compliance. Our future success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our business prospects will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property, including the Red Robin®, Red Robin Gourmet Burgers®, Red Robin America's Gourmet Burgers & Spirits®, Red Robin's Burger Works®, "YUMMM®", Red Robin Gourmet Burgers and Brews™ and Red Robin Royalty™ names and logos. We have registered or filed applications for trademarks for these names and logos, among others, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in Canada, and we have applied to register various trademarks in certain other international jurisdictions. Our trademarks could be infringed in ways that leave us without redress, such as by imitation or by filings by others in jurisdictions where we are not currently registered. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how in operating our restaurants, and we employ various methods to protect those trade secrets and that proprietary know-how. However, such methods may not afford adequate protection and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our know-how, concepts and recipes. Consequently, our business could be negatively affected and less profitable if we are unable to successfully defend and protect our intellectual property. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Food safety and food-borne illness concerns and any related unfavorable publicity could have an adverse effect on our business. We dedicate substantial resources to ensuring that our guests enjoy safe, quality food products. Nonetheless, restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products or high-calorie foods, or other concerns. Food safety issues also could be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, could be out of our control. Regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination, at one of our or a franchisee's restaurants, could adversely affect our reputation and have a negative impact on our sales. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins. Health concerns relating to the consumption of beef, chicken, or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively affect our results of operations. Consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns about food-related illness, the consumption of beef, the key ingredient in many of our menu items, or negative publicity or publication of government or industry findings concerning food quality, illness and injury. Further, consumers may react negatively to reports concerning our food products or health or other concerns or operating issues stemming from one or more of our restaurants. Such negative publicity, whether or not valid, may negatively affect demand for our food and could result in decreased guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of a change in our menu or concept could materially harm our business and negatively affect our profitability. 19 Our failure to remain in compliance with governmental laws and regulations as they continually evolve, and the associated costs of compliance, could cause our business results to suffer. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations, including, among others, those relating to our employees, public health and safety, food safety, nutritional disclosure, alcoholic beverage control, public accommodations, health care reform, and financial and disclosure reporting and controls. These laws and regulations continually evolve and change. We may fail to maintain compliance with all laws and regulations despite our best efforts. Changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, or failure to comply with them could result in, among other things, increased exposure to litigation, administrative enforcement actions or governmental investigations or proceedings; revocation of required licenses or approvals; fines; and civil and criminal liability. These negative consequences could increase the cost of or interfere with our ability to operate our business and execute our strategies. Various federal and state employment laws govern our relationship with our team members and affect operating costs. These laws govern employee classification, wage and payment requirements including tip credit laws, meal and rest breaks, unemployment and other taxes, health care and benefits, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, labor relations, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct. Changes in these laws or our failure to comply with enforcement requirements could require changes to our operations that could harm our operating results. For example, although we require all of our team members to provide us with the government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our team members, without our knowledge, may not meet federal citizenship or residency requirements, which could lead to a disruption in our work force. We are subject to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such intoxicated person. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage control or dram shop regulations could subject the Company to liability and could negatively affect our business. The effect of changes to healthcare laws in the United States may increase the number of employees who chose to participate in our healthcare plans, increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our financial results. Currently, many of our eligible employees choose not to participate in our Company sponsored healthcare plans for various reasons. However, eligible employees who currently choose not to participate in our healthcare plans may find it more advantageous to do so when changes to healthcare laws in the United States become effective in 2014. Such changes include potential penalties to persons for not obtaining healthcare coverage and ineligibility for certain healthcare subsidies under various circumstances. If a large portion of currently eligible but nonparticipating employees choose to enroll when or after the law becomes effective, it may significantly increase our healthcare coverage costs and negatively impact our financial results. A significant increase in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a member of the restaurant industry, we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury, or other food quality, health, or operational concerns. Negative publicity resulting from these allegations could harm our restaurants, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In fact, we are subject to the same risks of negative publicity resulting from these sorts of allegations even if the claim actually involves one of our franchisees. 20 In addition, any failure by us to comply with the various federal and state labor laws governing our relationship with our team members including requirements pertaining to minimum wage, overtime pay, meal and rest breaks, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship or residency requirements, child labor regulations, and discriminatory conduct, may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. We have been subject to such claims from time to time. The possibility of a material adverse effect on our business relating to employment litigation is even more pronounced given the high concentration of team members employed in the western United States, as this region, and California in particular, has a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. Further, employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, or wrongful termination may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 