Item 1A. Risk Factors Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements set forth in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those factors include the following: The occurrence of severe catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Because we underwrite property and casualty reinsurance and have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, including terrorism, we expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. The frequency and severity of catastrophe losses are inherently difficult to predict. Consequently, the occurrence of losses from a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, catastrophes are an inherent risk of our business and a severe catastrophe or series of catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business, and our financial condition and results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity and statutory surplus (which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including liabilities for LAE, are subtracted from all admitted assets, as determined under statutory accounting principles prescribed or permitted by U.S. insurance regulatory authorities). Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have historically resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and, although we seek to limit our overall exposure to risk by limiting the amount of reinsurance we write by geographic zone, we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. Uncertainty related to estimated losses from the 2005 Hurricanes may further impact our financial results. The estimated pre-tax impact of the 2005 Hurricanes of approximately $529,970,000 includes gross losses of $654,090,000, recoveries from retrocessional reinsurance of $73,800,000 and reinstatement premiums earned and profit commission reductions of $50,320,000. Losses from these hurricanes contributed 31.3 percentage points to the combined ratio for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our losses from the 2005 Hurricanes are estimates based on a review of individual contracts and preliminary indications from clients and brokers. The unique nature of the losses and the potential for legal and regulatory developments to impact the magnitude of the loss is expected to introduce significant uncertainty and delay into the loss adjustment and settlement processes. Consequently, the actual impact on our results arising from the 2005 Hurricanes may differ materially from the current estimates. In addition, our estimates with respect to Hurricane Katrina are subject to a high level of uncertainty arising from complex and unique causation and coverage issues associated with the attribution of losses to wind or flood damage or other perils such as fire, business interruption or riot and civil commotion. For example, the underlying policies often do not cover flood damage; however, water damage associated with wind may be covered. We expect that these issues will not be resolved for a considerable period of time and may be influenced by evolving legal and regulatory developments. 30 Table of Contents Our actual losses from the 2005 Hurricanes may exceed our estimates as a result of, among other things, the receipt of additional information from clients, the attribution of losses to coverages that for the purpose of our estimates we assumed would not be exposed, which may be affected by class action lawsuits or state regulatory action, and inflation in repair costs due to the limited availability of labor and materials, in which case our financial results could be further materially adversely affected. If the loss limitation methods and pricing models we employ are not effective, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our property and casualty reinsurance contracts cover unpredictable events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, fires, industrial explosions, freezes, riots, floods and other natural or man-made disasters. We seek to limit our overall exposure to risk by limiting the amount of reinsurance we write by geographic zone, peril and type of program or contract. Our risk management practices include the use of contract terms, diversification criteria, probability analysis and analysis of comparable historical loss experience. We estimate the impact of certain catastrophic events using catastrophe modeling software and contract information to evaluate our exposure to losses from individual contracts and in the aggregate. For example, the majority of the natural peril catastrophe reinsurance we write relates to exposures within the United States, Europe and Japan. Accordingly, we monitor our exposure to events that affect these regions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes in the United States, flood and wind in Europe and typhoons and earthquakes in Japan. We take an active role in the evaluation of commercial catastrophe exposure models, which form the basis for our own proprietary pricing models. These computer-based loss modeling systems utilize direct exposure information obtained from our clients and independent data to assess each client’s potential for catastrophe losses. We believe that modeling is an important part of the underwriting process for catastrophe exposure pricing. However, these models depend on the quality of the information obtained from our clients and the independent data we obtain from third parties and may prove inadequate for determining the pricing for certain catastrophe exposures. Many of our reinsurance contracts do not contain an aggregate loss limit or a loss ratio limit, which means that there is no contractual limit to the losses that we may be required to pay pursuant to such reinsurance contracts. Substantially all of our property reinsurance contracts with natural catastrophe exposure have occurrence limits that limit our exposure. Substantially all of our high layer property, casualty and marine excess-of-loss contracts also contain aggregate loss limits, with limited reinstatements of an occurrence limit, which restore the original limit under the contract after the limit has been depleted by losses incurred on that treaty. Various provisions of our contracts, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend, due to, among other things, disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving assumptions about matters that are inherently difficult to predict and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity and statutory surplus. If we are required to increase our liabilities for losses and LAE, our operating results may be adversely affected. We are required by applicable insurance laws and regulations and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) to establish liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet for payment of losses and LAE that will arise from our reinsurance products. At any time, these liabilities may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and LAE. To the extent these liabilities may be insufficient to cover actual losses or LAE, we will have to add to these liabilities and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents The liabilities established on our consolidated balance sheet do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are estimates of the expected cost of the ultimate settlement of losses. All of our liability estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections at a given time, facts and circumstances known at that time and estimates of trends in loss severity and other variable factors, including new concepts of liability and general economic conditions. Changes in these trends or other variable factors could result in claims in excess of the liabilities that we have established. Unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. These additional losses could arise from changes in the legal environment, prior catastrophic events, extraordinary events affecting our clients such as reorganizations and liquidations or changes in general economic conditions. In addition, because we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. Under U.S. GAAP, Platinum Bermuda, Platinum US and Platinum UK are not permitted to establish liabilities until an event occurs which may give rise to a loss. Once such an event occurs, liabilities are established based upon estimates of the total losses incurred by the ceding companies and an estimate of the portion of such loss our three operating subsidiaries have reinsured. As a result, only liabilities applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be established, with no allowance for the provision of a contingency reserve to account for unexpected future losses. Losses arising from future events will be estimated and recognized at the time the loss is incurred. Such future losses could be substantial. A downgrade in the ratings assigned to the Company could adversely affect our ability to write new business. A.M. Best has assigned a financial strength rating of “A” (Excellent) to our operating subsidiaries. This rating is the third highest of sixteen rating levels. According to A.M. Best, a rating of “A” indicates A.M. Best’s opinion that a company has an excellent ability to meet its ongoing obligations to policyholders. This rating is subject to periodic review by A.M. Best and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best. A.M. Best may increase its scrutiny of rated companies, revise their rating standards or take other action. If A.M. Best revises the rating standard associated with our current rating, our rating may be downgraded or we may need to raise additional capital to maintain our rating. A.M. Best and Standard & Poor’s are generally considered to be a significant rating agencies with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Ratings are used by ceding companies and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. In addition, a ceding company’s own rating may be adversely affected by a downgrade in the rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, a downgrade of our rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us and may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of ours that has a higher insurance rating. It is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow the ceding companies to cancel the contract or require collateral to be posted for a portion of our obligations if we are downgraded below a certain rating level. Whether a client would exercise this cancellation right would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, we cannot predict in advance the extent to which this cancellation right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect such cancellations would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect potentially could be material. We may from time to time secure our obligations under our various reinsurance contracts using trusts and letters of credit. We have entered into agreements with several ceding companies that require us to provide collateral for our obligations under certain reinsurance contracts with these ceding companies under various circumstances, including where our obligations to these ceding companies exceed negotiated thresholds. These 32 Table of Contents thresholds may vary depending on our rating from A.M. Best or other rating agencies and a downgrade of our ratings or a failure to achieve a certain rating may increase the amount of collateral we are required to provide. We may provide the collateral by delivering letters of credit to the ceding company, depositing assets into trust for the benefit of the ceding company or permitting the ceding company to withhold funds that would otherwise be delivered to us under the reinsurance contract. The amount of collateral we are required to provide typically represents a portion of the obligations we may owe the ceding company, often including estimates made by the ceding company of claims that were incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). Since we may be required to provide collateral based on the ceding company’s estimate, we may be obligated to provide collateral that exceeds our estimates of the ultimate liability to the ceding company. On November 8, 2005, Standard & Poor’s, issued a press release announcing that it had assigned its preliminary “BBB” senior debt, “BBB-” subordinated debt, and “BB+” preferred stock ratings to the Company’s 2005 shelf registration statement after announcing earlier in the year that it had assigned its “BBB” counterparty credit and senior debt ratings to Platinum Holdings. The November 8, 2005 press release stated that these ratings reflect the Company’s strong competitive position in the global reinsurance market, strong capitalization, and moderate financial leverage. Standard & Poor’s noted, however, that the Company’s short tenure as an independent company and the 2005 hurricane losses offset these strengths and marred otherwise strong earnings. Standard & Poor’s ratings are subject to periodic review by Standard & Poor’s and may be revised or revoked in its sole discretion. We may from time to time obtain ratings from other rating agencies. However, we are unable to predict the impact of any such ratings at this time. Increased competition could adversely affect our profitability. The property and casualty reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete with reinsurers worldwide, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. Some of our competitors are large financial institutions that have reinsurance segments, while others are specialty reinsurance companies. Financial institutions have also created alternative capital market products that compete with reinsurance products, such as reinsurance securitization. Following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, a number of individuals and entities established new Bermuda reinsurers, and many of our competitors raised additional capital. Many of the reinsurers that entered or that intend to enter the reinsurance markets have or could have more capital than we have. In addition, there may be established companies or new companies of which we are not aware that may be planning to commit capital to this market. The full effect of this additional capital on the reinsurance market and on the terms and conditions of the reinsurance contracts of the types we expect to underwrite may not be known for some time. Competition in the types of reinsurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including premium charges and other terms and conditions offered, services provided, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment, claims experience, perceived financial strength and experience and reputation of the reinsurer in the line of reinsurance to be underwritten. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to retain senior management and to continue to attract talented new personnel. Competition within the reinsurance industry to attract senior management, particularly in Bermuda, has increased following the establishment of a number of new, well-capitalized Bermuda reinsurers in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. We believe these new entrants will recruit from established reinsurers to hire their new management teams. Traditional as well as new capital market participants from time to time produce alternative products (such as reinsurance securitizations, catastrophe bonds and various derivatives such as swaps) that may compete with certain types of reinsurance, such as property catastrophe. Over time, these numerous initiatives could significantly affect supply, pricing and competition in our industry. 33 Table of Contents Retrocessional reinsurance may become unavailable on acceptable terms. In order to limit the effect on our financial condition of large and multiple losses, we may buy retrocessional reinsurance, which is reinsurance for our own account. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. If we are unable or unwilling to obtain retrocessional reinsurance, our financial position and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by catastrophic losses. Elimination of all or portions of our retrocessional coverage could subject us to increased, and possibly material, exposure or could cause us to underwrite less business. Our retrocessions subject us to credit risk because the ceding of risk to retrocessionaires does not relieve a reinsurer of its liability to the ceding companies. Therefore, a retrocessionaire’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance treaty with us could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on the business provided to us by reinsurance brokers and we may be exposed to liability for brokers’ failure to make payments to clients for their claims; in addition, there are ongoing industry-wide investigations relating to the conduct of insurance and reinsurance brokers. We market most of our reinsurance products through reinsurance brokers. The reinsurance brokerage industry generally, and our sources of business specifically, are concentrated. The loss of business relationships with any of our top five brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, some of these brokers have invested in new Bermuda reinsurance companies that may compete with us. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owing in respect of claims under our contracts to reinsurance brokers, for payment over to the ceding companies. In the event that a broker fails to make such a payment, depending on the jurisdiction, we may remain liable to the ceding company for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when premiums for such contracts are paid to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, such premiums will be deemed to have been paid and the ceding company will no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not actually received by us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with our brokers during the payment process. Beginning in the spring of 2004 and continuing throughout 2005, regulatory authorities in several states commenced industry-wide investigations relating to the conduct of insurance and reinsurance brokers, including investigations into broker compensation practices such as contingent commissions and other business practices that may have created actual or potential conflicts of interest. Various regulatory investigations into companies such as Willis North America, Inc., a subsidiary of Willis Group Holdings Ltd., (“Willis”), Marsh & McLennan Companies (“Marsh”), and Aon Corporation (“Aon”) led to monetary settlements of various sizes with these companies. We were not party to any litigation that arose in connection with any of these investigations, and did not receive any subpoenas or information requests with respect to any litigation. We underwrite substantially all of our reinsurance through brokers, including a substantial portion through Willis, Marsh and Aon. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that these investigations, and any increased regulatory oversight that might result therefrom, may have on our business. The current investigations into finite risk reinsurance products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In November and December 2004, the Company received subpoenas from the SEC and the Office of the Attorney General for the State of New York for documents and information relating to certain finite risk reinsurance products. We have fully cooperated in responding to all such requests. Other reinsurance companies have reported receiving similar subpoenas and requests. We are unable to predict the direction these investigations will take and the impact, if any, they may have on our business. On June 14, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York requesting documents relating to our finite risk reinsurance products. The 34 Table of Contents Company has been informed that other companies in the industry have received similar subpoenas. We have fully cooperated in responding to this request. In the Finite Risk segment, we expect that the ongoing investigations by the SEC, New York Attorney General and United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York will significantly diminish demand for finite risk products in the short term. The property and casualty reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable pricing. Historically, property and casualty reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic and market conditions, all of which affect ceding companies’ decisions as to the amount or portion of risk that they retain for their own accounts and consequently reinsurance premium rates. The supply of reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the levels of insured losses and levels of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry. As a result, the property and casualty reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable pricing. We can expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry’s profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, including what management believes to be a trend of courts to grant increasingly larger awards for certain damages, natural disasters (such as catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of and income and returns on investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by primary insurers. We cannot predict whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. A return to unfavorable market conditions from the current favorable conditions may affect our ability to write reinsurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write property and casualty reinsurance at appropriate rates, our ability to transact reinsurance business would be significantly and adversely affected. Our invested assets are subject to market volatility and interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuation. The Company’s principal invested assets are fixed maturities, which are subject to the market risk of potential losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Depending on our classification of our investments as available-for-sale, trading or other assets, changes in the market value of our securities are reflected in either our consolidated balance sheet or statement of operations. The Company’s investment portfolio is also subject to credit risk resulting from adverse changes in the issuer’s ability to repay the debt. These risks could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. The Company’s principal exposure to foreign currency risk is its obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. The possibility exists that the Company may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as it ultimately settles claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. To the extent the Company does not seek to hedge its foreign currency risk or hedges prove ineffective, the resulting impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rate could materially adversely affect our financial condition or our results of operations. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Bermuda company and certain of our officers and directors are residents of various jurisdictions outside the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets and our officers and directors, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. on our directors and officers who reside outside the U.S. or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. 35 Table of Contents There are limitations on the ownership, transfer and voting rights of our Common Shares. Under our Bye-laws, our directors are required to decline to register any transfer of Common Shares that would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting shares, or in the case of our two former principal shareholders beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of such shares or of the total combined value of our issued shares. Similar restrictions apply to our ability to issue or repurchase shares. The directors also may, in their discretion, decline to register the transfer of any shares if they have reason to believe (1) that the transfer may lead to adverse tax or regulatory consequences in any jurisdiction or (2) that the transfer would violate the registration requirements of the U.S. federal securities laws or of any other jurisdiction. These restrictions would apply to a transfer of shares even if the transfer has been executed on the NYSE. A transferor of Common Shares will be deemed to own those shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of those Common Shares has been registered on our register of shareholders. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of Common Shares as necessary to give effect to the transfer issuance and repurchase restrictions referred to above, and may decline to effect any transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our Bye-laws generally provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding voting shares, will have the voting rights attached to its issued shares reduced so that it may not exercise 10% or more of such total voting rights. Because of the attribution provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and the rules of the SEC regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds 10% or more of our Common Shares. Further, the directors have the authority to require from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives the directors (or their designees) discretion to disregard all votes attached to that shareholder’s Common Shares. The insurance law of Maryland prevents any person from acquiring control of us or of Platinum US unless that person has filed a notification with specified information with the Maryland Insurance Commissioner and has obtained his prior approval. Under the Maryland statute, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change of control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of Platinum Holdings without the prior approval of the Maryland Insurance Commissioner will be in violation of this law and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the Maryland Insurance Commissioner or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the Maryland Insurance Commissioner. In addition, many U.S. state insurance laws require prior notification of state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Platinum Holdings may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. Common Shares may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda. In addition, sales of Common Shares to persons resident in Bermuda for Bermuda exchange control purposes may require the prior approval of the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Consent under the Exchange Control Act 1972 (and its related regulations) has been obtained from the Bermuda Monetary Authority for the issue and transfer of the Common Shares between non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, provided our shares remain listed on an appointed stock exchange, which includes the NYSE. In giving such consent, neither the Bermuda Monetary Authority nor the Registrar of Companies accepts any responsibility for the financial soundness of any proposal or for the correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed herein or therein. 36 Table of Contents The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, as amended (“FSMA”), regulates changes in “control” of any U.K. insurance company authorized under FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly holds 10% or more of the shares in the parent company of a U.K. authorized insurance company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such a parent company, would be considered a “controller” for the purposes of the relevant legislation, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such parent company by virtue of his shareholding in it. A purchaser of 10% or more of the Common Shares would therefore be considered to have acquired “control” of Platinum UK. Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire “control” over a U.K. authorized insurance company must give prior notification to the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) of his intention to do so. In addition, if an existing controller proposes to increase its control in excess of certain thresholds set out in FSMA, that person must also notify the FSA in advance. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire or increase “control”. In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied both that the person is a fit and proper person to have such “control” and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of or increase in “control”. Failure to make the relevant prior application would constitute a criminal offense. The foregoing provisions of our Bye-laws and legal restrictions will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. Platinum Holdings is a holding company and, consequently, its cash flow is dependent on dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings is a holding company that conducts no reinsurance operations of its own. All operations are conducted by its wholly owned operating subsidiaries, Platinum US, Platinum UK and Platinum Bermuda. As a holding company, Platinum Holdings’ cash flow consists primarily of dividends, interest and other permissible payments from its subsidiaries. Platinum Holdings depends on such payments for general corporate purposes and to meet its obligations, including the payment of any dividends to its shareholders, including the holders of Common Shares. Additionally, under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981 (the “Companies Act”), Platinum Holdings may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if it has reasonable grounds for believing that it is, or after the payment would be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of its assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of its liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. The imposition of U.S. corporate income tax on Platinum Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that Platinum Holdings, Platinum UK, Platinum Bermuda and Platinum Regency each operate in such a manner that none of these companies is subject to U.S. corporate income tax because they are not engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. Nevertheless, because definitive identification of activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. is not provided by the tax authorities, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service might contend that any of these companies is engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., which would subject such company to U.S. tax at regular corporate rates on the income that is effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business, plus an additional 30% “branch profits” tax on such income remaining after the regular tax in certain circumstances. Any such tax could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Under certain circumstances, you may be required to pay taxes on your pro rata share of the related person insurance income of Platinum Bermuda and of Platinum UK. If the related person insurance income (“RPII”) of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda were to equal or exceed 20% of the gross insurance income of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or 37 Table of Contents indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda, a U.S. person who owns the Common Shares of Platinum Holdings directly or indirectly on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of the RPII of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such United States shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, U.S. tax-exempt organizations would be required to treat RPII as unrelated business taxable income if the RPII of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda equaled or exceeded 20% of the gross insurance income of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda in any taxable year. The amount of RPII earned by Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of the business of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda. Some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII in any period may be beyond the control of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda. Consequently, the RPII of Platinum UK or Platinum Bermuda could equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The RPII rules provide that if a shareholder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of Common Shares because Platinum Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our Common Shares. A recently published IRS Revenue Ruling could be applied to recharacterize the insurance arrangements between Platinum US and Platinum Bermuda. Recently, the IRS published Revenue Ruling 2005-04, which gives guidelines for when there is adequate “risk distribution” for primary insurance arrangements to constitute insurance for U.S. federal tax purposes. Revenue Ruling 2005-04 does not address what constitutes risk distribution in the context of reinsurance (which includes retrocession insurance). However, if the IRS were to successfully contend that the principles enunciated in Revenue Ruling 2005-04 apply to reinsurance (including retrocession insurance) and find that under those principles Platinum Bermuda does not have adequate risk distribution, this would have a negative effect on the Company and on the value of our Common Shares, particularly in the hands of those shareholders who would be subject to the passive foreign investment company rules. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016. We have received a standard assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda’s Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or our shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Consequently, if our Bermuda tax exemption is not extended past March 28, 2016, we may be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date. 38 Table of Contents Bermuda could be subject to sanctions by a number of multinational organizations which could adversely affect Bermuda companies. A number of multinational organizations, including the European Union, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, (“OECD”), including its Financial Action Task Force, and the Financial Stability Forum, have identified certain countries as not participating in adequate information exchange, engaging in harmful tax competition or not maintaining adequate controls to prevent corruption, such as money laundering activities. Recommendations to limit such harmful practices are under consideration by these organizations, and a report published on November 27, 2001 by the OECD contains an extensive discussion of specific recommendations. The OECD has threatened non-member jurisdictions that do not agree to cooperate with the OECD with punitive sanctions by OECD member countries. It is unclear what these sanctions will be and if they will be imposed. In a June 26, 2000 report, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction by the OECD. However, we cannot assure you that this situation will not change. The OECD can adopt measures that could adversely affect Bermuda companies. The regulatory system under which we operate and potential changes thereto, could significantly and adversely affect our business. The business of reinsurance is regulated in most countries, although the degree and type of regulation varies significantly from one jurisdiction to another. Reinsurers are generally subject to less direct regulation than primary insurers. In Bermuda, we operate under relatively less intensive regulatory requirements. However, in the United States and in the United Kingdom licensed reinsurers are highly regulated and must comply with financial supervision standards comparable to those governing primary insurers. For additional discussion of the regulatory requirements to which Platinum Holdings and its subsidiaries are subject, see Business — Regulation. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our financial results and operations. In addition, these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to write new business or, as indicated above, distribute funds to Platinum Holdings. In recent years, some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, (“NAIC”) and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws that may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. Platinum Bermuda is not registered or licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda. Platinum Bermuda conducts its business solely through its offices in Bermuda and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not conduct any insurance activities, in the U.S. or elsewhere. Although Platinum Bermuda does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, inquiries or challenges to Platinum Bermuda’s insurance activities may still be raised in the future. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. federal and various state jurisdictions. In the past, there have been congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. If Platinum Bermuda were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than those applicable to it in Bermuda, Platinum Bermuda might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Company to conduct its business. 39 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 