Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS The operation of our business, our transition to a banking model, and the effects of the transactions that were effectuated in our bankruptcy reorganization each involve various elements of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making a decision whether to invest in the Company. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. Risks Related to Our Strategy and Business Plan In 2010, we made significant changes in our senior management team and our Board of Directors, which may affect our long-term business strategy and our ability to develop and implement that strategy. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop, refine, and implement our business strategy successfully following the significant changes in our leadership. John A. Thain was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer effective February 8, 2010. Beginning in the second quarter of 2010, Mr. Thain hired a new Chief Administrative Officer and Head of Strategy, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Credit Officer, Chief Auditor, Executive Vice President - Banking, and other high level executives to replace executives who resigned or retired. In addition, the Board includes six directors who joined since December 2009, and are serving with Mr. Thain and five incumbent directors. The new management team and the reconstituted Board of Directors must either refine and implement the current strategy of transitioning to a banking model or identify and implement an alternative business strategy. As a result of the significant changes in the senior management team and the Board of Directors, there is no assurance that our business strategy will not change significantly or that we will be able to successfully implement that strategy. In light of our capital and funding alternatives, we must continue refining and implementing our strategy and business plan, which is based upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing our strategy and business plan in the time frame available to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. We must currently address a number of strategic issues that affect our business, including capital and liquidity issues, business strategy issues, and operational issues. Among the capital and liquidity issues, we must address our approach to the capital markets, including the amount, availability, and cost of both secured and unsecured debt. If we are unable to gain access to the capital markets on a cost-effective, sustainable basis, we will have to rely more heavily on a bank-centric financing model, which involves significant challenges as described below. See “Risks Related to Capital and Liquidity.” Among the business strategy issues, we must address which business platforms to transfer to CIT Bank, which business platforms to retain at the holding company level, our funding model, the scope of international operations, and whether to sell any existing business platforms or acquire any new platforms. We may from time to time evaluate acquisitions or divestitures including acquisitions or divestitures which could be material. Among the operational issues, we must address the process and scope for upgrading policies, procedures, and systems. We believe we have a period of time in which to finalize and implement our strategic decisions, but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so effectively. In light of this uncertainty, our new management team will continue to refine our business plan and strategy and may decide to supplement or modify it in significant ways. If we are unable to fully implement our business plan and strategy, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Our strategy and business plan relies upon assumptions, analyses, and financial forecasts developed by us, including with respect to revenue growth, improved earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, improved interest margins, growth in cash flow, adequate liquidity and financing sources, improved customer confidence, retention of key employees, and the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions. Financial forecasts are inherently subject to many uncertainties and are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts are even more speculative than normal, because they involve fundamental changes in the nature of our business. Accordingly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we have forecast. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by our strategy and business plan will occur or, if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of our strategy and business plan. In addition, the accounting treatment required for our bankruptcy reorganization may have an impact on our results going forward. 22 Risks Related to Capital and Liquidity If the Company does not maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the FRBNY, the FDIC and the UDFI, there could be an adverse effect on the manner in which we do business, or we could become subject to various enforcement or regulatory actions. When we became a bank holding company and CIT Bank converted from a Utah industrial bank to a Utah state bank, we committed to the FRBNY to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 13% for the bank holding company and to the FDIC to maintain for at least a three year period a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 15% for CIT Bank. Although our capital levels currently exceed the minimum levels committed to with the regulators, future losses may reduce our capital levels and we have no assurances that we will be able to maintain our regulatory capital at satisfactory levels based on the current level of performance of our business. Failure to maintain the appropriate capital levels would adversely affect the Company’s status as a bank holding company, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and subject the Company to a variety of enforcement actions, as well as certain restrictions on its business. In addition to the requirement to be well-capitalized, the Company and CIT Bank are subject to regulatory guidelines that involve qualitative judgments by regulators about the entities’ status as well-managed, about the safety and soundness of the entities’ operations, including their risk management, and about the entities compliance with obligations under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, and failure to meet those standards may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we incur future losses and as a result do not maintain sufficient regulatory capital, the FRBNY and the FDIC could take action to require the Company to divest its interest in CIT Bank or otherwise limit access to CIT Bank by the Company and its creditors. The FDIC, in the case of CIT Bank, and the FRBNY, in the case of the Company, could place restrictions on the ability of CIT Bank and the Company to take certain actions without the prior approval of the applicable regulators. If we are unable to implement our strategy and business plan, including a long-term funding plan, and access the credit markets to meet our capital and liquidity needs in the future, or if we otherwise suffer adverse effects on our liquidity and operating results, we may be subject to formal and informal enforcement actions by the FRBNY and the FDIC, we may be forced to divest CIT Bank, and/or CIT Bank may be placed in FDIC conservatorship or receivership or suffer other consequences. Such actions could impair our ability to successfully execute any strategy and business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Even if we successfully implement our strategy and business plan, inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our future business operations. Even if we successfully implement our strategy and business plan, obtain additional financing from third party sources to continue operations, and successfully operate our business, our liquidity may be inadequate to expand our business or upgrade our operations and we may be required to sell assets or engage in other capital generating actions over and above our normal financing activities or cut back or eliminate other programs that are important to the future success of our business. In addition, as part of our business we enter into financial commitments and extend lines of credit, and our customers and counterparties might respond to any weakening of our liquidity position by requesting quicker payment, requiring additional collateral, and increasing draws on our outstanding commitments and lines of credit. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 23 Our indebtedness and other obligations continue to be significant. If the current economic environment does not improve, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our obligations as they come due, and as a result we would need additional funding, which may be difficult to obtain. Even if we successfully implement our strategy and business plan with respect to our capital structure and our businesses, we have a significant amount of indebtedness and other obligations that were issued at higher interest rates than current prevailing market rates, which are likely to have several important consequences. For example, the amount of indebtedness and other obligations could: require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce funds available for other necessary purposes; make it more difficult or impossible for us to satisfy our obligations; limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and adverse developments in our industry and business; and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. If we are unable to maintain profitability, and/or if current economic conditions do not improve in the foreseeable future, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to allow us to service our debt, pay our other obligations as required and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may need to dispose of additional assets and/or minimize capital expenditures and/or try to raise additional financing. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit flexibility in operating our business. The Indentures for the Second Lien Notes and, under certain circumstances, the agreement governing our Amended Credit Facility (each as defined in “Description of Certain Other Indebtedness”) contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; sell, transfer or otherwise convey certain assets; create liens; designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into a new or different line of business; or engage in certain transactions with our affiliates. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Second Lien Notes or our Amended Credit Facility and could result in cross defaults against our other outstanding debt and/or credit facilities. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully expand our deposit-taking capabilities at CIT Bank, which is currently restricted from increasing its level of broker deposits pursuant to the Cease and Desist Orders. The Company currently has limited access to the unsecured debt capital markets and may be unable to broaden such access in the foreseeable future, which will make the Company reliant upon bank deposits and secured financing structures to fund its business in CIT Bank. CIT Bank does not have a retail branch network and obtains its deposits through brokers. The FDIC and the UDFI, pursuant to Cease and Desist Orders, restricted the total amount of broker deposits that CIT Bank may hold, without the prior written consent of both the FDIC and UDFI. In order to diversify its deposit-taking capabilities beyond broker deposits, the Company will need to either establish de novo or acquire a retail branch network or internet banking operations and/or a cash management operation for existing customers. Any such alternatives will require significant time and effort to implement and will be subject to regulatory approval, which may not be obtained, particularly if the financial condition of the Company does not improve. In addition, we are likely to face significant competition for deposits from stronger bank holding companies who are similarly seeking larger and more stable pools of funding. If CIT Bank is unable to expand its deposit-taking capability, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. 24 Our liquidity and/or ability to issue secured or unsecured debt in the capital markets likely will be limited by our capital structure and level of encumbered assets, the performance of our business, market conditions, credit ratings, or regulatory or contractual restrictions. Our traditional business model depended upon access to the capital markets for unsecured debt (commercial paper, medium-term notes, and corporate bonds) and secured debt (securitizations and conduit facilities) to provide liquidity and efficient funding for asset growth. These markets exhibited heightened volatility and dramatically reduced liquidity beginning in 2007, and generally have offered limited availability to us at economical terms since the fourth quarter of 2007, and may remain so for the foreseeable future. Downgrades in our short- and long-term credit ratings in March 2008, April 2009 and June 2009 to below investment grade and ultimately the consummation of our Plan of Reorganization had the practical effect of leaving us without access to the commercial paper market and other unsecured term debt markets. As a result of these developments, the Company reduced its funding sources to brokered deposits and secured borrowings, where available. This resulted in significant additional costs due to higher interest rates and restrictions on the types of collateral and advance rates as compared to unsecured funding. Under the Company’s Amended Credit Facility and Second Lien Notes, it granted liens on almost all remaining unencumbered assets. The Company’s ability to access the secured debt markets in the future will be affected by restrictions in the Amended Credit Facility and Second Lien Notes, and by the existing level of encumbered assets. The Company’s ability to access the unsecured debt markets or other capital generating actions is likely to be adversely affected by the Company’s outstanding secured financings, which in the aggregate encumber substantially all of the Company’s assets. We believe that conducting a greater proportion of our business activities within CIT Bank will facilitate greater funding stability. As a regulated bank, CIT Bank has access to certain funding sources, such as insured deposits, that are not available to non-banking institutions. However, CIT Bank generally cannot fund any of CIT’s businesses conducted outside the Bank and we will need to transfer a substantial portion of our business platforms to CIT Bank in order for CIT Bank to originate and fund such business activities. This will require the approval of our banking regulators, but there is no assurance that we will receive such approvals. Moreover, once we transition our businesses to CIT Bank, they will be subject to greater regulatory oversight and there is no assurance that we will be able to conduct those businesses, or achieve growth and profitability in them, as we might wish. Finally, there is no assurance that CIT Bank will become a reliable funding source as to either the amount of borrowings we might need or the cost of funding. This will depend in significant part on the ability of CIT Bank to attract deposits, which currently is limited by its lack of a branch network and by the Cease and Desist Orders restricting the amount of deposits it may seek from brokers, and on whether CIT Bank will be accepted by depositors and lenders as a reliable borrower. Even if CIT Bank is successful in originating a significant amount of new business, we will continue to conduct substantial businesses outside CIT Bank and will need to obtain funding for those businesses in the capital markets and through third-party bank borrowings. Access to the unsecured debt markets may be dependent upon our ratings from credit rating agencies, which currently are not investment grade. Although we currently have reasonable access to the secured debt markets, the restricted cash related to securitization transactions is available solely for specific permitted uses under the securitization transactions and cannot be transferred to or used for the benefit of any other affiliate of ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to regain access to the unsecured term debt markets, or obtain sufficient funding in the secured debt markets at attractive terms and conditions, and if we are unable to do so, it would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition unless the Company is able to obtain alternative sources of liquidity. 25 Risks Related to Regulatory Obligations and Limitations We are currently subject to the Written Agreement, which may adversely affect our business. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, the Company must provide the FRBNY with (i) a corporate governance plan, focusing on strengthening internal audit, risk management, and other control functions, (ii) a credit risk management plan, (iii) a written program to review and revise, as appropriate, its program for determining, documenting and recording the allowance for loan and lease losses, (iv) a capital plan for the Company and CIT Bank, (v) a liquidity plan, including meeting short term funding needs and longer term funding, without relying on government programs or Section 23A waivers, and (vi) a business plan, and we continue to update various of these plans on a periodic basis. The Written Agreement also prohibits the Company, without the prior approval of the FRBNY, from paying dividends, paying interest on subordinated debt, incurring or guaranteeing debt outside of the ordinary course of business, prepaying debt, or purchasing or redeeming the Company’s stock. Under the Written Agreement, the Company must comply with certain procedures and restrictions on appointing or changing the responsibilities of any senior officer or director, restricting the provision of indemnification to officers and directors, and restricting the payment of severance to employees. Providing additional resources for internal audit, risk management, and other control functions, and implementing other measures to comply with the Written Agreement will increase our expenses for the foreseeable future. If we do not comply with the terms of the Written Agreement, it could result in additional regulatory action and it could have a material adverse affect on our business. CIT Bank is currently subject to the Cease and Desist Orders, which may adversely affect our business. CIT Bank relies principally on brokered deposits to fund its ongoing business, which generally require payment of higher yields than non-brokered deposits and may be subject to inherent limits on the aggregate amount available, depending on market conditions. The FDIC and the UDFI have issued, and CIT Bank has consented to (without admitting or denying the allegations), the Cease and Desist Orders, which, among other things, limit the amount of brokered deposits CIT Bank can maintain and restrict CIT Bank’s ability to enter into transactions with affiliates and to make dividend payments. If we are unable to increase our level of deposits through other sources, or to otherwise comply with the requirements of the Cease and Desist Orders, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Under the Cease and Desist Orders, CIT Bank submitted a contingency plan providing for and ensuring the continuous and satisfactory servicing of all loans held by CIT Bank, which was accepted as satisfactory by the FDIC. If CIT Bank is required to separate all of its operations from the Company, it will eliminate the cost advantages of the scale of operations of the Company and increase the expenses of CIT Bank for the foreseeable future. CIT Bank also must obtain prior regulatory approval in order to increase the level of brokered deposits held by CIT Bank above $5,527 million (the balance at December 31, 2010 is $4,545 million). In addition, if CIT Bank is deemed not to be well capitalized, it may not raise brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. CIT Bank must notify the FDIC in writing at least 30 days prior to any management changes, and must obtain prior approval before entering into any “golden parachute” arrangements or any agreement to make any excess nondiscriminatory severance plan payments. In addition, the FDIC is requiring CIT Bank to submit a liquidity plan for funding any maturing debt and an outline of plans or scenarios for the future operation of CIT Bank if we do not maintain our regulatory capital levels. Many of our regulated subsidiaries could be negatively affected by a decrease in regulatory capital levels or a failure to improve our performance. In addition to CIT Bank, we have a number of other regulated subsidiaries that may be affected by a decrease in our regulatory capital levels or a failure to improve our performance. In particular, the regulators of our banking subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, France and Brazil, as well as our Small Business Lending and insurance subsidiaries, may take action against such entities, including limiting or prohibiting transactions with CIT Group Inc. and/or seizing such entities if we experience a decrease in our regulatory capital levels or a failure to improve our performance. 26 Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company, by new regulations or by changes in other regulations or the application thereof. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. We are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision of the Federal Reserve, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. In addition, CIT Bank is subject to supervision by the FDIC and UDFI, including risk-based capital requirements and information reporting requirements. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and is not intended to protect security holders. Proposals for legislation to further regulate, restrict, and tax certain financial services activities are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also periodically adopt changes to their regulations. In recent years, regulators have increased significantly the level and scope of their supervision and their regulation of the financial services industry. We are unable to predict how this increased supervision will be fully implemented or the form or nature of any future changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof. Such increased supervision and regulation could significantly affect our ability to conduct certain of our businesses, including some of our material businesses, in a cost-effective manner, or could restrict the type of activities in which we are permitted to engage, or subject us to stricter and more conservative capital, leverage, liquidity, and risk management standards. Any such action, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, could significantly increase our costs and limit our growth opportunities, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of the activities in which we currently engage are permissible activities for a bank holding company. However, since we are not a financial holding company, certain of our existing businesses are not permissible under regulations applicable to a bank holding company, including certain real estate investment and equity investment activities. When the Federal Reserve approved our application to become a bank holding company, we were required to conform those activities to the requirements imposed on a bank holding company or divest them by December 22, 2010. We conformed or divested a majority of our impermissible real estate and equity investments prior to December 22, 2010, and the Federal Reserve extended the period to conform or divest the impermissible activities for an additional year to December 22, 2011. However, these impermissible investments continue to require management attention and are still subject to periodic reporting and review by the Federal Reserve. The financial services industry is also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside of the United States. We have subsidiaries in various countries that are licensed as banks, banking corporations, broker-dealers, and insurance companies, all of which are subject to regulation and examination by banking, securities, and insurance regulators in their home jurisdiction. In addition, in several jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom and Germany, the local banking regulators requested the local regulated entity to develop contingency plans to operate on a stand-alone basis. Given the evolving nature of regulations in many of these jurisdictions, it may be difficult for us to meet all of the regulatory requirements, establish operations and receive approvals. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market, on our ability to permanently reinvest our earnings, and on our reputation generally. We are also affected by the economic and other policies adopted by various governmental authorities and bodies in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a FSOC chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk and, among other things, includes provisions affecting (i) corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC, (ii) FDIC insurance assessments, which will be based on asset levels rather than deposit levels, (iii) minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, (iv) derivatives activities, proprietary trading, and private investment funds offered by financial institutions, and (v) the regulation of large financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws. 27 At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations may adversely impact us. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue attractive business opportunities, cause us to modify our strategies and business operations, and increase our capital requirements, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully implement our plan to transform our compliance, risk management, finance, treasury, operations, and other areas of our business to meet the standards of a bank holding company. When we became a bank holding company and converted our Utah industrial bank to a Utah state bank, we analyzed our business to identify areas that require improved policies and procedures to meet the regulatory requirements and standards for banks and bank holding companies, including but not limited to compliance, risk management, finance, treasury, and operations. We developed and we are implementing project plans to improve policies, procedures, and systems in the areas identified. Our new business model is based on the assumption that we will be able to make this transition in a reasonable amount of time. If we have not identified all of the required improvements, particularly in our control functions, or if we are unsuccessful in implementing the policies, procedures, and systems that have been identified, or if we do not implement the policies, procedures, and systems quickly enough, we may not be able to operate our business as efficiently as we need to. In addition, we could be subject to a variety of formal and informal enforcement actions that could result in the imposition of certain restrictions on our business, or preclude us from making acquisitions, and such actions could impair our ability to execute our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial position. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Businesses We may be adversely affected if we do not properly remediate the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to the Company’s application of Fresh Start Accounting (“FSA”) identified by management, which resulted in a material misstatement of interest income and other income and resulted in the restatement of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the first three quarterly periods in the year ended December 31, 2010. Management of CIT is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting may result in an inability to (i) maintain records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company, (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company, and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Management of CIT, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and identified a material weakness related to the Company’s application of FSA. Specifically, the Company did not have effective controls over the processes to ensure proper accretion of discounts for loan prepayments, modifications, and charge-offs. This material weakness resulted in a material misstatement of interest income and other income and the restatement of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the first three quarterly periods in the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, this material weakness could result in a misstatement of the aforementioned account balances and related disclosures that would result in a material misstatement to the amount or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. If we do not properly remediate this material weakness, or if we identify other material weaknesses, or if other material weaknesses exist that we fail to identify, our risk will be increased that a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any such potential material misstatement, if not prevented or detected, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be additionally negatively affected by credit risk exposures and our reserves for credit losses, including the related non-accretable fair value discount component of the fresh start accounting adjustments, may prove inadequate. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. We maintain a consolidated reserve for credit losses on finance receivables that reflects management’s judgment of losses inherent in the portfolio. We periodically review our consolidated reserve for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values, and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans, past due loan migration trends, and non-performing assets. Our credit losses were significantly more severe from 2007 to 2009 than in prior economic downturns, due to a significant decline in real estate values, an increase in the proportion of unsecured cash flow loans versus asset based loans in our corporate finance segment, the limited ability of borrowers to restructure their liabilities or their business, and reduced values of the collateral underlying the loans. Our consolidated reserve for credit losses, and the related non-accretable fair value discount component of the fresh start accounting adjustments, may prove inadequate and we cannot assure that it will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. The current economic environment is dynamic and the credit-worthiness of our customers and the value of collateral underlying our receivables declined significantly in prior years, particularly in 2008 and 2009, and may further decline over the near future. Our reserves may not keep pace with changes in the credit-worthiness of our customers or in collateral values. If the credit quality of our customer base declines, if the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes significantly, or if the markets for accounts receivable, equipment, real estate, or other collateral deteriorates significantly, any or all of which would adversely affect the adequacy of our reserves for credit losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. In addition to customer credit risk associated with loans and leases, we are exposed to other forms of credit risk, including counterparties to our derivative transactions, loan sales, syndications and equipment purchases. These counterparties include other financial institutions, manufacturers, and our customers. If our credit underwriting processes or credit risk judgments fail to adequately identify or assess such risks, or if the credit quality of our derivative counterparties, customers, manufacturers, or other parties with which we conduct business materially deteriorates, we may be exposed to credit risk related losses that may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 28 Uncertainties related to our business may result in the loss of or decreased business with customers. Our business depends upon our customers believing that we will be able to provide them with funding on a timely basis through a wide range of quality products. Many of our customers rely upon our funding to provide them with the working capital necessary to operate their business or to fund capital improvements that allow them to maintain or expand their business. In many instances, these funding requirements are time sensitive. If our customers are uncertain as to our ability to continue to provide them with funding on a timely basis or to provide the same breadth and quality of products, we may be unable to attract new customers and we may experience lower business or a loss of business with our existing customers. We may not be able to achieve adequate consideration for the disposition of assets or businesses. As part of our strategy and business plan, we may consider a number of measures designed to manage our business, asset levels or liquidity position, including potential business or asset sales. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing all or any of these transactions, because there may not be a sufficient number of buyers willing to enter into a transaction, we may not receive sufficient consideration for such businesses or assets, the process of selling businesses or assets may take too long to be a significant source of liquidity, or lenders or noteholders with consent rights may not approve a sale of assets. These transactions, if completed, may reduce the size of our business and we may not be able to replace the volume associated with these businesses. From time to time, we also receive inquiries from third parties regarding our potential interest in disposing of other types of assets, such as student lending and other commercial finance or vendor finance assets, which we may or may not choose to pursue. Prices for assets were depressed due to market conditions starting in the second half of 2007 and in some instances continue to be depressed today. In addition, potential purchasers may be unwilling to pay an amount equal to the face value of a loan or lease if the purchaser is concerned about the quality of the Company’s credit underwriting. Further, some potential purchasers will intentionally submit bids with purchase prices below the face value of a loan or lease if the purchaser suspects that the seller is under pressure to sell and cannot afford to negotiate the price. There is no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for any asset or business dispositions. Certain dispositions in 2008 and 2009 resulted in the Company recognizing significant losses. As a result, our future disposition of businesses or asset portfolios could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When we sold our home lending business in 2008, the Purchaser agreed to assume our repurchase obligations related to representations and warranties that we made in earlier transactions with Government Sponsored Entities (“GSEs”), investors in mortgage backed securities originated by our home lending business, or monoline home lenders. If any claims are brought under such repurchase obligations and the Purchaser is unable to meet its obligations under such claims, then we may be subject to claims under such repurchase obligations as the originator of the underlying residential mortgage loans. Recently, certain lenders have been subject to claims by GSEs, monoline home lenders, and investors in mortgage backed securities of a breach of representations and warranties with respect to the residential mortgage loans and residential mortgage backed securities previously transferred to such GSEs, monoline home lenders, or investors. In certain instances, the lenders who originated the underlying residential mortgage loans have reached settlements with purchasers or investors requiring the original lender to repurchase all or a portion of the underlying residential mortgage loans at a significant cost to the original lender. In 2008, we entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to sell our residential mortgage lending business, including the related residential mortgage loan portfolio and mortgage backed securities, to a company created by a private equity fund for the purpose of entering into the Purchase Agreement (the “Purchaser”). Prior to the sale of our home lending business to the Purchaser, we periodically had securitized a portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originated and sold residential mortgage loans or residential mortgage backed securities to GSEs, monoline home lenders, and investors. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement with the Purchaser, we made certain representations and warranties regarding the business and portfolio, nearly all of which have since expired. 29 In addition, the Purchaser agreed to assume all repurchase obligations for residential mortgage loans under the securitization and loan sale agreements entered into prior to the Purchase Agreement and scheduled as part of the Purchase Agreement. The Purchaser has not given any indication that it has been subject to significant repurchase obligations or that it does not intend to honor its agreement to assume such repurchase obligations. However, if the Purchaser is subject to repurchase obligations and is unable or unwilling to accept responsibility for such repurchase obligations, and particularly if the Purchaser does not have sufficient capital to address such repurchase obligations, then we may become subject to claims under such repurchase obligations. If we become responsible for such repurchase obligations to third parties, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are restricted from paying dividends on our common stock. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, we are restricted from declaring dividends on our common stock without prior written approval of the FRBNY. In addition, under the terms of the Amended Credit Facility and the Second Lien Notes, we are prohibited from declaring dividends on our common stock until such indebtedness is repaid. We have suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock. We cannot determine when, if ever, we will be able to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Uncertainties related to our business, as well as the corporate governance requirements imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, may create a distraction for employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to retain existing employees and/or attract new employees. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. Failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could materially adversely affect our ability to compete. If we are significantly limited or unable to attract and retain key personnel, or if we lose a significant number of key employees, or if employees are distracted due to concerns about the future prospects and profitability of our business, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business or to meet our operations, risk management, compliance, regulatory, and financial reporting requirements. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to allow shareholders to cast a non-binding vote on (i) executive compensation at least once every three years and (ii) all compensation paid or payable to named executive officers related to any merger, acquisition, or major asset sale in any proxy statement filed in connection with such transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the SEC to issue rules requiring companies to develop claw-back policies to recoup all incentive based compensation paid to current or former executives during the three years on which a restatement is required when a company must restate its financial statements due to material noncompliance with any financial reporting requirement. The compensation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as other non-compensation provisions, such as those restricting banks and bank holding companies from engaging in certain activities, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to recruit and retain individuals with the experience and skill necessary to manage successfully our business through its current difficulties and during the long term. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease. The realization of equipment values (residual values) during the life and at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in the leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. Internal equipment management specialists, as well as external consultants, determine residual values. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on the equipment, excessive use of the equipment, recession or other adverse economic conditions, or other factors, would adversely affect the current values or the residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values, including commercial aerospace residuals, are dependent on the manufacturers’ or vendors’ warranties, reputation, and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. 30 The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Capital leases bear the least risk because contractual payments cover approximately 90% of the equipment’s cost at the inception of the lease. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment’s value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. Leveraged leases bear the highest level of risk as third parties have a priority claim on equipment cash flows. A significant portion of our leasing portfolios are comprised of operating leases, and a portion is comprised of leveraged leases, both of which increase our residual realization risk. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements that under certain circumstances give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies under such arrangements which, if exercised, may have material adverse consequences. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements that give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies upon the occurrence of a material adverse effect or material adverse change (or similar event), certain insolvency events, a default under certain specified other obligations or a failure to comply with certain financial covenants. Deterioration in our business and that of certain of our subsidiaries may make it more likely that counterparties will seek to exercise rights and remedies under these arrangements. The counterparty could have the ability, depending on the arrangement, to, among other things, require early repayment of amounts owed by us or our subsidiaries and in some cases payment of penalty amounts. In these cases, we intend to enter into discussions with the counterparties, where appropriate, to seek a waiver under, or amendment of, the arrangements to avoid or minimize any potential adverse consequences. If the ability of any counterparty to exercise such rights and remedies is triggered and we are unsuccessful in avoiding or minimizing the adverse consequences discussed above, such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Adverse or volatile market conditions could continue to negatively impact fees and other income. In 2005, we began pursuing strategies to leverage our expanded asset generation capability and diversify our revenue base in order to generate higher levels of loan syndication and participation income, advisory fees, servicing fees, and other types of fee income to increase other income as a percentage of total revenue. In addition, we also generate significant fee income from our factoring business. These revenue streams are dependent on market conditions and the confidence of clients, customers, and syndication partners in our ability to perform our obligations, and, therefore, have been more volatile than interest payments on loans and rentals on leased equipment. Current market conditions, including lower liquidity levels in the syndication market and the time required to rebuild our transaction volume, have significantly reduced our syndication activity, and have resulted in significantly lower fee income. In addition, if our clients, customers, or syndication partners become concerned about our ability to meet our obligations on a transaction, it may become more difficult for us to originate new transactions, to syndicate transactions that we originate, or to participate in syndicated transactions originated by others, which could further negatively impact our fee income and have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to sell or syndicate a transaction after it is originated, we will end up holding a larger portion of the transaction and assuming greater underwriting risk than we originally intended, which could increase our capital and liquidity requirements to support our business or expose us to the risk of valuation allowances for assets held for sale. Continued disruption to the capital markets or the failure of our initiatives to produce increased asset and revenue levels could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Investment in and revenues from our foreign operations are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign countries. An economic recession or downturn, increased competition, or business disruption associated with the political or regulatory environments in the international markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. In addition, our foreign operations generally conduct business in foreign currencies, which subject us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. These exposures, if not effectively hedged could have a material adverse effect on our investment in international operations and the level of international revenues that we generate from international financing and leasing transactions. Reported results from our operations in foreign countries may fluctuate from period to period due to exchange rate movements in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly exchange rate movements in the Canadian dollar, which is our largest non-U.S. exposure. 31 Foreign countries have various compliance requirements for financial statement audits and tax filings, which are required in order to obtain and maintain licenses to transact business. If we are unable to properly complete and file our statutory audit reports or tax filings, regulators or tax authorities in the applicable jurisdiction may restrict our ability to do business. Furthermore, our international operations could expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trade sanctions laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other federal statutes. Under trade sanctions laws, the government may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and may subject us to fines, penalties and other sanctions. If any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. These laws also prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with government entities and have contracts in countries known to experience corruption. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or associates that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. Our existing safeguards and procedures may prove to be less than fully effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or associates may engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by significant changes in interest rates. Historically, we generally employed a matched funding approach to managing our interest rate risk, including matching the repricing characteristics of our assets with our liabilities. In many instances, we implemented our matched funding strategy through the use of interest rate swaps and other derivatives. Most of our counterparties relationships were terminated during our reorganization, and we are in the process of reestablishing counterparty relationships to facilitate hedging where economically appropriate. In addition, the restructuring resulted in the conversion of our debt to U.S. dollar, fixed rate liabilities. The restructuring and the derivative terminations left us in an asset sensitive position as our assets will reprice faster than our liabilities. Although interest rates are currently lower than usual, as interest rates rise and fall over time, any significant decrease in market interest rates may result in a decrease in net interest margins to the extent that we are not match funded. Likewise, our non-U.S. dollar denominated debt was converted to U.S. dollars resulting in foreign currency transactional and translational exposures. Our transactional exposures may result in income statement losses should related foreign currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar and our equity account may be similarly impacted as a result of foreign currency movements. Beginning in the second half of 2007, credit spreads for almost all financial institutions, and particularly our credit spreads, widened dramatically and made it highly uneconomical for us to borrow in the unsecured debt markets to fund loans to our customers. In addition, the widening of our credit spreads relative to the credit spreads of many of our competitors has placed us at a competitive disadvantage and made it more difficult to maintain our interest margins. If we are unable to obtain funding, either in the capital markets or through bank deposits, in sufficient amounts and at an economical rate that is competitive with other banks and lenders, we will be operating at a competitive disadvantage and it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A substantial portion of our loans and other financing products bear interest at floating interest rates. If interest rates increase, monthly interest obligations owed by our customers to us will also increase. Demand for our loans or other financing products may decrease as interest rates rise or if interest rates are expected to rise in the future. In addition, if prevailing interest rates increase, some of our customers may not be able to make the increased interest payments or refinance their balloon and bullet transaction, resulting in payment defaults and loan impairments. Conversely, if interest rates remain low, our customers may refinance the loans they have with us at lower interest rates, or with others, leading to lower revenues. 32 We may be adversely affected by further deterioration in economic conditions that is general in scope or affects specific industries, products or geographic areas. Prolonged economic weakness, or other adverse economic or financial developments in the U.S. or global economies in general, or affecting specific industries, geographic locations and/or products, would likely further impact credit quality as borrowers may fail to meet their debt payment obligations, particularly customers with highly leveraged loans. Adverse economic conditions have and could further result in declines in collateral values, which also decreases our ability to fund against collateral. Accordingly, higher credit and collateral related losses could impact our financial position or operating results. In addition, a continued downturn in certain industries may result in reduced demand for products that we finance in that industry or negatively impact collection and asset recovery efforts. Decreased demand for the products of various manufacturing customers due to the recent recession may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans and leases with us. Similarly, a decrease in the level of airline passenger traffic due to the recent recession or other fears or a decline in railroad shipping volumes due to recession may adversely affect our aerospace or rail businesses, the value of our aircraft and rail assets, and the ability of our lessees to make lease payments. Competition from both traditional competitors and new market entrants may adversely affect our market share, profitability, and returns. Our markets are highly competitive and are characterized by competitive factors that vary based upon product and geographic region. We have a wide variety of competitors that include captive and independent finance companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, industrial banks, community banks, leasing companies, hedge funds, insurance companies, mortgage companies, manufacturers and vendors. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and structure. If we are unable to match our competitors’ terms, we could lose market share. Should we match competitors’ terms, it is possible that we could experience lower returns and/or increased losses. We also may be unable to match competitors’ terms as a result of our current or future financial condition. 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. 