ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, and the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY A GENERAL DETERIORATION IN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. A general recession or downturn in the economy could make it difficult for us to originate new business, given the resultant reduced demand for consumer or commercial credit. In addition, a downturn in certain industries may result in a reduced demand for the products we finance in that industry. Credit quality may also be impacted during an economic slowdown or recession as borrowers may fail to meet their debt payment obligations. While we maintain a reserve for potential credit losses, this allowance could be insufficient depending upon the severity of the economic downturn. Adverse economic conditions may also result in declines in collateral values. As a result, higher credit and collateral related losses could impact our financial position or operating results. OUR LIQUIDITY OR ABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL MAY BE LIMITED. We rely upon access to the capital markets to fund asset growth and to provide sources of liquidity. We actively manage and mitigate liquidity risk by: 1) maintaining diversified sources of funding; 2) maintaining committed alternate sources of funding; 3) maintaining a contingency funding plan to be implemented in the event of market disruption; and 4) issuing debt with maturity schedules designed to mitigate refinancing risk. Although we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to the capital markets, adverse changes in the economy, deterioration in our business performance or changes in our credit ratings could limit our access to these markets. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES. Although we generally employ a matched funding approach to managing our interest rate risk, including matching the repricing characteristics of our assets with our liabilities, significant increases in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both our ability to originate new finance receivables and our ability to grow. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates could result in accelerated prepayments of owned and managed finance receivables. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REALIZE OUR ENTIRE INVESTMENT IN THE EQUIPMENT WE LEASE. The realization of equipment values (residual values) at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in the leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. Residual values are determined by experienced internal equipment management specialists, as well as external consultants. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on, or use of, the equipment or other factors, would adversely affect the residual values of such equipment. Consequently, there can be no assurance that our estimated residual values for equipment will be realized. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Capital leases bear the least risk because contractual payments cover approximately 90% of the equipment’s cost at the inception of the lease. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment’s value is covered by contractual cashflows at lease inception. We record periodic depreciation expense on operating lease equipment based upon estimates of the equipment’s useful life and the estimated future value of the equipment at the end of its useful life. Leveraged leases bear the highest level of risk as third parties have a priority claim on equipment cashflows. OUR RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSSES MAY PROVE INADEQUATE. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We believe that our credit risk management systems are adequate to limit our credit losses to a manageable level. We attempt to mitigate credit risks through the use of a corporate credit risk management group, formal credit management processes implemented by each business unit and automated credit scoring capabilities for small ticket business. We maintain a consolidated reserve for credit losses on finance receivables that reflects management’s judgment of losses inherent in the portfolio. We periodically review our consolidated reserve for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and non-performing assets. We cannot be certain that our consolidated reserve for credit losses will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if our reserves for credit losses are not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 10 CIT GROUP INC 2005 WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE REGULATED ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE. Our domestic operations are subject, in certain instances, to supervision and regulation by state and federal authorities and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions. Noncompliance with applicable statutes or regulations could result in the suspension or revocation of any license or registration at issue, as well as the imposition of civil fines and criminal penalties. The financial services industry is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result, growing our international operations may be challenged by the varying requirements of these jurisdictions. Given the evolving nature of regulations in many of these jurisdictions, it may be difficult for us to meet these requirements even after we establish operations and receive regulatory approvals. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market and on our reputation generally. WE COMPETE WITH A VARIETY OF FINANCING SOURCES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS. Our markets are highly competitive and are characterized by competitive factors that vary based upon product and geographic region. Our competitors are varied and include captive and independent finance companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, industrial banks, community banks, leasing companies, insurance companies, mortgage companies, manufacturers and vendors. Competition from both traditional competitors and new market entrants has intensified in recent years due to a strong economy, growing marketplace liquidity and increasing recognition of the attractiveness of the commercial finance markets. In addition, the rapid expansion of the securitization markets is dramatically reducing the difficulty in obtaining access to capital, which is the principal barrier to entry into these markets. We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and structure. To the extent that our competitors compete aggressively on any combination of those factors, we could lose market share. Should we match competitors’ terms, it is possible that we could experience some margin compression and/or increased losses. OUR ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF BUSINESSES OR ASSET PORTFOLIOS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. As part of our long-term business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of other companies or asset portfolios as well as dispose of non-strategic businesses or asset portfolios. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such acquisitions may involve numerous other risks, including: difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired company; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. In addition, acquired businesses and asset portfolios may have credit-related risks arising from substantially different underwriting standards associated with those businesses or assets. In the event of future dispositions of our businesses or asset portfolios, there can be no assurance that we will receive adequate consideration for those businesses or assets at the time of their disposition or will be able to adequately replace the volume associated with the businesses or asset portfolios that we dispose of with higher-yielding businesses or asset portfolios having acceptable risk characteristics. As a result, our future disposition of businesses or asset portfolios could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. INVESTMENT IN AND REVENUES FROM OUR FOREIGN OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING FOREIGN CURRENCIES. While we do attempt to hedge our translation and transaction exposures, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can have a material adverse effect on the investment in international operations and the level of international revenues that we generate from international asset based financing and leasing. Reported results from our operations in foreign countries may fluctuate from period to period due to exchange rate movements in relation to the U.S. dollar, particularly exchange rate movements in the Canadian dollar, which is our largest non-U.S. exposure. In addition, an economic recession or downturn or increased competition in the international markets in which we operate could adversely affect us. OUR BUSINESS INITIATIVES HAVE POTENTIAL EXECUTION RISK. Our ability to improve our levels of asset and revenue generation depends on our initiatives to align our businesses around customers and industry sectors, and to expand our sales and marketing platforms. These initiatives involve asset transfers, changes in management accountabilities, as well as the streamlining and realignment of related infrastructure, including information technology and personnel. Our failure to implement these initiatives successfully, or the failure of such initiatives to result in increased asset and revenue levels, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Item 1: Business 11 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved SEC staff comments. ITEM 