RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares or ADSs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to Gold Fields. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Changes in the market price for gold, and to a lesser extent copper, which in the past have fluctuated widely, affect the profitability of Gold Fields’ operations and the cash flows generated by those operations. Gold Fields’ revenues are primarily derived from the sale of gold that it produces. Gold Fields does not generally enter into forward sales, derivatives or other hedging arrangements in order to establish a price in advance of the sale of its gold production. As a result, it is exposed to changes in the gold price, which could lead to reduced revenue should the gold price decline. For example, during 2013 the gold price fell approximately 29%. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. The market price for gold has historically been volatile and is affected by numerous factors over which Gold Fields has no control, such as general supply and demand, speculative trading activity and global economic drivers. Should the gold price decline below Gold Fields’ production costs, it may experience losses and should this situation remain for an extended period, Gold Fields may be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration projects, growth projects, operations and/or reduce operational capital expenditures. Gold Fields might not be able to recover any losses it incurred during, or after, such events. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may also adversely affect Gold Fields’ ability to undertake new capital projects or continue with existing operations or make other long-term strategic decisions. In Peru, copper accounts for a significant proportion of the revenues at Gold Fields’ Cerro Corona mine, although copper is not a major element of Gold Fields’ overall revenues. A variety of factors may depress global copper prices and a decline in copper prices, which have also fluctuated widely, would adversely affect the revenues, profit and cash flows of the Cerro Corona mine. Gold Fields’ mineral reserves are estimates based on a number of assumptions, which, if changed, may require Gold Fields to lower its estimated mineral reserves. The mineral reserves stated in this annual report are estimates based on assumptions regarding, among other things, Gold Fields’ costs, expenditures, commodity prices, exchange rates, and metallurgical and mining recovery assumptions, which may prove inaccurate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond Gold Fields’ control. In the event that Gold Fields adversely revises any of the assumptions that underlie its mineral reserves reporting, Gold Fields may need to revise its mineral reserves downwards. See “Information on the Company—Reserves of Gold Fields as of December 31, 2013.” To the extent that Gold Fields makes acquisitions, it may experience problems in executing the acquisitions or managing and integrating the acquisitions with its existing operations. In order to maintain or expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may seek to make acquisitions of selected precious metal producing and/or exploration companies or assets. For example, on October 1, 2013 Gold Fields completed the acquisition of the Granny Smith, Darlot and Lawlers gold mines, or the Yilgarn South Assets, in Western Australia from Barrick Gold Corporation, or Barrick. See “Information on the Company—Developments since December 31, 2012—The Yilgarn South Assets.” Any such acquisition may change the scale of the Company’s business and operations and may expose it to new geographic, geological, political, social, operating, financial, legal, regulatory and contractual risks. There can be no assurance that any acquisition, including the acquisition of the Yilgarn South Assets, will achieve the results intended, and, as such, could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Gold Fields’ operations and profits have been and may be adversely affected by union activity and new and existing labor laws. Over recent periods, there has been an increase in union activity in some of the countries in which Gold Fields operates that has had a material adverse impact on Gold Fields’ operations, production and financial performance. In South Africa, a recent increase in labor unrest has resulted in more frequent industrial disputes and extended negotiations that have negatively affected South Africa’s sovereign debt rating and subsequently the credit ratings of a number of the country’s leading mining companies, including Gold Fields. In particular, strikes during the second half of fiscal 2012 impacted Gold Fields’ operations and caused work stoppages, resulting in significant production losses, primarily at the Spin-off operations. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations.” While the outcome of the wage negotiations with the unions in fiscal 2013 was relatively positive, and while Gold Fields now has fewer employees in South Africa after the Spin-off, in light of the recent labor unrest there can be no guarantee that future negotiations will not be accompanied by further strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions. A general election will be held on May 7, 2014 in South Africa which may be accompanied by political uncertainty and instability. Furthermore, guidelines and targets have been provided to facilitate compliance with the open-ended broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements espoused in section 2 of the MPRDA in the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African mining and minerals industry known as the Mining Charter, as well as the amendments to that charter that took effect from September 13, 2010, known as the Amended Mining Charter. In terms of the Mining Charter, as amended, all mining companies must achieve, among other things, 26% ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans, or HDSAs, of mining assets by March 2015 and a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation at the executive management, senior management, middle management, junior management and core and critical skills levels (subject to offsets) in order to comply with the empowerment requirements of the MPRDA. The implementation and enforcement of these requirements during fiscal 2014 may be contentious. Gold Fields’ operations in Ghana and Peru have recently been and may in the future be impacted by increased union activities. In particular, there can be no guarantee that the labor unions, particularly in Ghana, will not undertake strikes and “go-slow” actions impacting the Group’s operations or those of other related industries or suppliers. In Ghana, in April 2013, employees represented by the Ghana Mineworkers Union, or GMWU, the Professional Managerial Staff Union and the Branch Union at both Tarkwa and Damang undertook illegal industrial action, resulting in the temporary suspension of production at both operations. The strike lasted six days and ended after Gold Fields and the GMWU reached a settlement. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations.” While the wage negotiations with the unions in fiscal 2013 were completed, in light of the recent labor unrest there can be no guarantee that negotiations in the future will not be difficult or accompanied by further strikes, work stoppages or other labor actions. In the event that Gold Fields experiences further industrial relations related interruptions at any of its operations or in other industries that impact its operations, or increased employment-related costs due to union or employee activity, these may have a material adverse effect on its business, production levels, operating costs, production targets, results of operations, financial condition, reputation and future prospects. In addition, lower levels of mining activity can have a longer term impact on production levels and operating costs, which may affect operating life. Mining conditions can deteriorate during extended periods without production and Gold Fields will not re-commence mining until health and safety conditions are considered appropriate to do so. Existing labor laws (including those that impose obligations on Gold Fields regarding worker rights) and any new or amended labor laws may increase Gold Fields’ labor costs and have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents An actual or alleged breach or breaches in governance processes, or fraud, bribery and corruption may lead to public and private censure, regulatory penalties, loss of licenses or permits and impact negatively upon our empowerment status and may damage Gold Fields’ reputation. Gold Fields operates globally in multiple jurisdictions and with numerous and complex frameworks, and its governance and compliance processes may not prevent potential breaches of law or accounting or other governance practices. Gold Fields’ operating and ethical codes, among other standards and guidance, may not prevent instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty, nor guarantee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Gold Fields has been informed that it is the subject of a regulatory investigation in the United States by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, relating to the Black Economic Empowerment, or BEE, transaction associated with the granting of the mining license for its South Deep operation. In South Africa, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, or the Hawks, has informed the Company that it has started a preliminary investigation into the BEE transaction to determine whether or not to proceed to a formal investigation, following a complaint by the Democratic Alliance. Given the early stage of these investigations, it is not possible to determine what effect the ultimate outcome of these investigations, any regulatory findings and any related developments may have on the Company. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Regulatory Investigations.” To the extent that Gold Fields suffers from any actual or alleged breach or breaches of relevant laws (including South African anti-bribery and corruption legislation or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977) under any circumstances, they may lead to regulatory and civil fines, litigation, public and private censure, loss of operating licenses or permits and impact negatively upon our empowerment status and may damage Gold Fields’ reputation. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that Gold Fields seeks to add to its reserve base through its exploration program, it may experience problems associated with mineral exploration or developing mining projects. In order to expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may rely on its exploration program for gold, and other metals associated with gold, as well as its ability to develop mining projects. Exploration for gold and other metals associated with gold is speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. To the extent that ore bodies are to be developed, it can take a number of years and substantial expenditures from the initial phases of drilling until production commences, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. In addition, to the extent Gold Fields participates in the development of a project through a joint venture or any other multi-party commercial structure, there could be disagreements, legal or otherwise, or divergent interests or goals amongst the parties, which could jeopardize the success of the project. Furthermore, significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from exploration efforts. There is no assurance that Gold Fields will have, or be able to raise, the required funds to engage in these activities or to meet its obligations with respect to the exploration properties in which it has or may acquire an interest. Due to the nature of mining and the extensive environmental footprint of the operations, environmental and industrial accidents and pollution may result in operational disruptions such as stoppages which could result in increased production costs as well as financial and regulatory liabilities. Gold mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards and industrial and mining accidents. These may include, for example, seismic events, fires, cave-ins and blockages, flooding, discharges of gases and toxic substances, contamination of water, air or soil resources, radioactivity and other accidents or conditions resulting from mining activities including, among other things, blasting and the transport, storage and handling of hazardous materials. 9 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of these hazards could delay or halt production, increase production costs and result in financial and regulatory liability for Gold Fields (including as a result of the occurrence of hazards that took place at the Sibanye Gold assets when they were owned by Gold Fields). Due to ageing infrastructure at our operations, unplanned breakdowns and stoppages may result in production delays, increased costs and industrial accidents. Once a shaft or a processing plant has reached the end of its intended lifespan, more than normal maintenance and care is required. Some of Gold Fields’ infrastructure in South Africa, Ghana and Australia falls into this category. Although Gold Fields has comprehensive maintenance strategies in place, incidents resulting in production delays, increased costs or industrial accidents may occur. Such incidents may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ results of operations and financial position. If Gold Fields loses senior management or is unable to hire and retain sufficient technically skilled employees or sufficient HDSA representation in management positions, its business may be materially adversely affected. Gold Fields’ ability to operate or expand effectively depends largely on the experience, skills and performance of its senior management team and technically skilled employees. However, the mining industry, including Gold Fields, continues to experience a global shortage of qualified senior management and technically skilled employees. Gold Fields may be unable to hire or retain appropriate senior management, technically skilled employees or other management personnel, or may have to pay higher levels of remuneration than it currently intends in order to do so. Additionally, as a condition of our mining license at South Deep, we must ensure sufficient HDSA participation in our management and core and critical skills, and failure to do so could result in fines or the loss or suspension of our mining license. If Gold Fields is not able to hire and retain appropriate management and technically skilled personnel or is unable to obtain sufficient HDSA representation in management positions or if there are not sufficient succession plans in place, this could have a material adverse effect on its business (including production levels), results of operations and financial position. Because gold is generally sold in U.S. dollars, while some of Gold Fields’ production costs are in Australian dollars, Rand and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, Gold Fields’ operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed by a material change in the value of these non-U.S. dollar currencies. Gold is principally sold throughout the world in U.S. dollars. Gold Fields’ costs of production are incurred principally in U.S. dollars, Australian dollars, Rand and other currencies. Recent volatility in the Rand (including, principally, significant depreciation of the Rand against the U.S. dollar over the past year) has made our costs in South Africa and results of operations less predictable than when exchange rates are more stable. As a result, any significant and sustained appreciation of any of these non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar may materially increase Gold Fields’ costs in U.S. dollar terms, which could materially adversely affect Gold Fields’ operating results and financial condition. Conversely, inflation in any of the countries in which it operates could increase the prices Gold Fields pays for products and services and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations if not offset by increased gold prices. Gold Fields is subject to various regulatory costs, such as mining taxes and royalties, changes to which may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. In recent years, governments (local and national), communities, non-governmental organizations and trade unions in several jurisdictions have sought and, in some cases, have implemented greater cost imposts on the mining industry, including through the imposition of additional taxes and royalties. Such resource nationalism, whether in the form of cost imposts, interference in project management, mandatory social investment requirements, local content requirements or creeping expropriation could impact the global mining industry and Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents In South Africa, the African National Congress, or the ANC, has recently adopted two recommended approaches to interacting with the mining industry. While the ANC has rejected the possibility of mine nationalization for now, the first approach contemplates, among other things, greater state intervention in the mining industry, including the revision of existing royalties, the imposition of new taxes and an increase in the South African government’s holdings in mining companies. The second approach contemplates the South African government taking a more active role in the mining sector, including through the strengthening of a state mining company to be involved in new projects either through partnerships or individually. The adopted policies may impose additional restrictions, obligations, operational costs, taxes or royalty payments on gold mining companies, including Gold Fields, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. In 2012, the Ghanaian government increased taxes on mining companies. These changes included an increase in the corporate income tax from 25% to 35%, an increase in stool/land rents to U.S.$3,750 per km2 from U.S.$0.2 per km2, an increase in customs duties on mining equipment to 5% and the introduction of a temporary special import levy of 1% to 2%. Further, in Ghana, the ownership of land on which there are mineral deposits is separate from the ownership of the minerals. Mining companies must pay royalties of 5% of the total revenue earned from minerals. The government also has a right to obtain a 10% free-carried interest in mining leases. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Ghana—Mineral Rights.” In Peru, a mining royalty tax established in 2011 increased the tax burden on mining companies (relating to mining royalties). In addition, a new consultation law has been enacted, requiring the government to consult with indigenous or native populations on legislative or administrative proposals that may have an impact on their collective rights. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru—Mining Royalty and Other Special Mining Taxes and Charges.” The impositions of additional restrictions, obligations, operational costs, taxes or royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Economic, political or social instability in the countries or regions where Gold Fields operates may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. In fiscal 2013, approximately 15%, 37%, 33% and 15% of Gold Fields’ production was in South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru, respectively. Based on guidance, Gold Fields expects 16%, 30%, 42% and 12% of its production in fiscal 2014 to be in South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru, respectively. Changes or instability in the economic, political or social environment in South Africa or in any of these other countries or in neighboring countries could affect an investment in Gold Fields. High levels of unemployment and a shortage of critical skills in South Africa, despite increased government expenditure on education and training, remain issues and deterrents to foreign investment. The volatile and uncertain labor environment, which is severely impacting on the local economy and investor confidence, has led and may lead to further downgrades in credit ratings making investment more expensive and difficult to secure. See “—Gold Fields’ operations and profits have been and may be adversely affected by union activity and new and existing labor laws.” This may restrict Gold Fields’ future access to international financing and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, while the South African government has stated that it does not intend to nationalize mining assets or mining companies, certain new smaller political parties have stated publicly and in the media that the government should embark on a program of nationalization. Any threats of, or actual proceedings to, nationalize any of Gold Fields’ assets, could halt or curtail operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition and could cause the value of Gold Fields’ securities to decline rapidly and dramatically, possibly causing investors to lose the entirety of their respective investments. 11 Table of Contents There has also been regional social instability in the area around Gold Fields’ mining operations in Peru. While local opposition to mine development projects has not caused any stoppages at these operations, it could have a negative impact on Gold Fields’ ability to manage and operate these operations. If Gold Fields experiences further opposition in connection with its operations in Peru, or if protests aimed at other mining operations affect its operations, it could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations. Power cost increases may adversely affect Gold Fields’ results of operations. Gold Fields’ South Deep mining operation depends upon electrical power generated by the state utility provider, Eskom Limited, or Eskom. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Costs.” Eskom holds a monopoly on power supply in the South African market. Eskom applies to the NERSA for tariff increases and for 2013 the NERSA granted Eskom an average tariff increase of 16.0%. The actual legislated increase applicable to the South African mining industry effective July 1, 2013 was 9.6%. Should Gold Fields experience further power tariff increases, its results of operations may be adversely impacted. In Australia, Gold Fields’ contract for the supply of electricity to both of its Australian operations was due to expire in 2014. Gold Fields has finalized a replacement contract for St. Ives and is currently in the process of negotiating a replacement contract for Agnew/Lawlers with parties including the major mining company which presently supplies power under a power purchasing agreement, and also with domestic gas suppliers in Western Australia. If Agnew/Lawlers is unable to agree a replacement contract or if St. Ives were to lose its supply, replacement of this supply may entail a significant increase in costs due to the volatile Western Australian gas market. Any such increase in costs could have a material adverse impact on Gold Fields’ business and operating results. Both Gold Fields Ghana Limited, or Gold Fields Ghana, and Abosso Gold Fields Limited, or Abosso, have concluded tariff negotiations for 2013 and 2014 with their respective power suppliers (the state electricity supplier, the Volta River Authority, or VRA, supplies power to Gold Fields Ghana and the Electricity Company of Ghana, or ECG, provides power to Abosso), representing a 19% increase on VRA and 15% increase on ECG, respectively, from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012. The 2013 tariffs remained unchanged from the 2012 tariffs. Management expects further tariff increases in the future. Any further increase in the electricity price could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business and operating results. See “Information on the Company—Description of Mining Business”. Power stoppages, fluctuations and usage constraints may force Gold Fields to halt or curtail operations. In 2008, South Africa experienced disruptions in electrical power supply that impacted Gold Fields’ operations. Electricity supply in South Africa remains constrained and future power disruptions are possible. Eskom has warned that power constraints will continue until its new power stations are commissioned, which is expected towards the end of 2014. Labor unrest in South Africa during fiscal 2012 also disrupted the supply of coal to Eskom’s power station resulting in interrupted supply. Furthermore, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, rain impacted coal supply, which has placed serious strain on Eskom’s ability to provide power, and Gold Fields has been warned of possible load shedding under its voluntary load shedding agreement with Eskom. Under this agreement, Gold Fields is required to shed 25% of load over a two-hour period in a 24 hour cycle. Any further disruption or decrease in the electrical power supply available to Gold Fields’ South Deep operation could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Department of Energy is developing a power conservation program in an attempt to improve the power situation in South Africa. However, there can be no assurance that this program will provide sufficient supply for the needs of the country or for Gold Fields to run its operations at full capacity or at all. Although the VRA has not imposed any power cuts in Ghana since August 2006, frequent power interruptions have occurred in the power supplied by the ECG. Should Gold Fields continue to experience power outages, fluctuations or usage constraints at any of its operations, then its business and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. 12 Table of Contents Actual and potential supply chain shortages and increases in the prices of production inputs may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. Gold Fields’ results of operations may be affected by the availability and pricing of raw materials and other essential production inputs, including fuel, steel and cyanide and other reagents. The price and quality of raw materials may be substantially affected by changes in global supply and demand, along with weather conditions, governmental controls and other factors. A sustained interruption in the supply of any of these materials would require Gold Fields to find acceptable substitute suppliers and could require it to pay higher prices for such materials. Any significant increase in the prices of these materials will increase the Company’s operating costs and affect production considerations. Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may not adequately satisfy all potential claims in the future. Gold Fields has an insurance program, however, it may become subject to liability against which it has not insured, cannot insure or has insufficiently insured, including those in respect of past mining activities. Gold Fields’ existing property and liability insurance contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. For example, should Gold Fields be subject to any regulatory or criminal fines or penalties, these amounts would not be covered under its insurance program. Should Gold Fields suffer a major loss, future earnings could be affected. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future, Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against it or any cross-claims made. Gold Fields’ financial flexibility could be materially constrained by South African exchange control regulations. South Africa’s exchange control regulations, or the Exchange Control Regulations, restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia, and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, or the CMA. Transactions between South African residents (including companies) and non-residents of the CMA are subject to exchange controls enforced by the South African Reserve Bank, or SARB. As a result, Gold Fields’ ability to raise and deploy capital outside the CMA is restricted. These restrictions could hinder Gold Fields’ financial and strategic flexibility, particularly its ability to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and exploration projects outside South Africa. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Exchange Controls.” Gold Fields may suffer material adverse consequences as a result of its reliance on outside contractors to conduct some of its operations. A portion of Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru are currently conducted by outside contractors. As a result, Gold Fields’ operations at those sites are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside Gold Fields’ control, including contract risk, execution risk, litigation risk, regulatory risk and labor risk. In addition, Gold Fields may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of its contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Australia” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Peru.” Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may materially adversely affect Gold Fields’ operations. Energy is a significant input and cost to Gold Fields’ mining and processing operations, with its principal energy sources being electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. A number of governments or governmental bodies, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change. Many of these contemplate restricting emissions of greenhouse gases in jurisdictions in which Gold Fields operates. 13 Table of Contents In Australia, the Australian Clean Energy Act 2011 (Cth), or Clean Energy Act, and associated legislation establishing a national carbon pricing scheme, or Scheme, passed into law in November 2011. The overall impact of the Scheme is estimated at A$20 million per annum on Gold Fields’ Australian operations (including the Yilgarn South Assets). See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Environmental.” The South African government is considering introducing a carbon tax. The carbon tax was intended to come into effect from January 1, 2015 but, in order to align the framework of the proposed carbon tax with the desired reduction outcomes, the implementation of the carbon tax was postponed to 2016 in order to allow sufficient time for consultation on draft legislation and the implementation process. Many aspects of the proposed carbon tax remain uncertain, and it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact of the proposed carbon tax on the Company. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Environmental.” In addition, a number of other regulatory initiatives are underway in countries in which Gold Fields operates that seek to reduce or limit industrial greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and are likely to impact Gold Fields’ operations directly or by affecting the cost of doing business, for example by increasing the costs of its suppliers or customers. Inconsistency of regulations particularly between developed and developing countries may affect both Gold Fields’ decision to pursue opportunities in certain countries and its costs of operations. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which Gold Fields operates. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on Gold Fields’ operations are highly uncertain and may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of Gold Fields’ operations. Theft of gold and copper bearing materials and production inputs, as well as illegal and artisanal mining, occur on some of Gold Fields’ properties, are difficult to control, can disrupt Gold Fields’ business and can expose Gold Fields to liability. A number of Gold Fields’ properties have experienced illegal and artisanal mining activities and theft of gold and copper bearing materials and copper cables (which may be by employees or third parties). The activities of illegal and artisanal miners could lead to depletion of mineral reserves, potentially affecting the economic viability of mining certain areas and shortening the lives of the operations as well as causing possible operational disruption, project delays, disputes with illegal miners and communities, pollution or damage to property for which Gold Fields could potentially be held responsible, leading to fines or other costs. Rising gold and copper prices may result in an increase in gold and copper thefts. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition or results of operations. HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other contagious diseases pose risks to Gold Fields in terms of lost productivity and increased costs. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa poses risks to Gold Fields in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and other costs. Compounding this are the concomitant infections, such as tuberculosis, that can accompany HIV illness, particularly at the end stages, and cause additional healthcare-related costs. If there is a significant increase in the incidence of HIV/AIDS infection and related diseases among the workforce, this may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Health and Safety—Health—HIV/AIDS Program.” Additionally, the spread of contagious diseases such as respiratory diseases are exacerbated by communal housing and close quarters. The spread of such diseases could impact employees’ productivity, treatment costs and, therefore, operational costs. 14 Table of Contents Gold Fields’ operations are subject to environmental and health and safety regulations, which could impose additional costs and compliance requirements and Gold Fields may face claims and liability for breaches, or alleged breaches, of such regulations and other applicable laws. Gold Fields’ operations are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws, regulations, permitting requirements and standards. For example, Gold Fields is required to secure estimated environmental rehabilitation costs in Ghana and Australia through the posting of a reclamation bond and unconditional, bank-guaranteed performance bond, respectively. In South Africa, similar security is required in the form of contributions into environmental trust funds and insurance guarantees. In Peru, Gold Fields is required to provide guarantees with annual deposits. Gold Fields may in the future incur significant costs to comply with such environmental and health and safety requirements imposed under existing or new legislation, regulations or permit requirements or to comply with changes in existing laws and regulations or the manner in which they are applied. Gold Fields may also be subject to litigation and other costs as well as actions by authorities relating to environmental and health and safety matters, including mine closures, the suspension of operations and prosecution for industrial accidents as well as significant penalties and fines for non-compliance. These costs could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters.” The principal health risks associated with Gold Fields’ mining operations in South Africa arise from occupational exposure and community environmental exposure to silica dust, noise and certain hazardous substances, including toxic gases and radioactive particulates. The most significant occupational diseases affecting Gold Fields’ workforce include lung diseases (such as silicosis, tuberculosis, a combination of the two and chronic obstructive airways disease, or COAD) as well as noise-induced hearing loss, or NIHL. Employees have sought and may continue to seek compensation for certain illnesses, such as silicosis, from their employer under workers compensation and also, at the same time, in a civil action under common law (either as individuals or as a class). Such actions may also arise in connection with the alleged incidence of such diseases in communities proximate to Gold Fields’ mines. A consolidated application has been brought against several South African mining companies, including Gold Fields, for certification of a class action on behalf of current or former mineworkers (and their dependants) who have allegedly contracted silicosis while working for one or more of the above mining companies. In addition to the class action, an individual silicosis-related action has been instituted against Gold Fields and one other mining company. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Silicosis.” If a significant number of such claims were suitably established against it, the payment of compensation for the claims and for any significant additional costs arising out of these issues could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. South Africa’s deputy Mineral Resources Minister has stated that the ministry may increase sanctions, including closures, for mines in which fatalities occur because of violations of health and safety rules. The DMR can and does issue, in the ordinary course of its operations, instructions, including Section 54 orders, following safety incidents or accidents to partially or completely halt operations at affected mines. It is Gold Fields’ policy to halt production at its operations when serious accidents occur in order to rectify dangerous situations and, if necessary, retrain workers. In addition, there can be no assurance that the unions will not take industrial action in response to such accidents which could lead to losses in Gold Fields’ production. Any additional stoppages in production, or increased costs associated with such incidents, could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Such incidents may also negatively affect Gold Fields’ reputation with, among others, employees and unions, South African regulators and regulators in other jurisdictions in which Gold Fields operates. 15 Table of Contents Gold Fields could incur significant costs as a result of pending or threatened litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Silicosis.” Further, any new regulations, potential litigation or any changes to the health and safety laws which increase the burden of compliance or the penalties for non-compliance may cause Gold Fields to incur further significant costs and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Health and Safety.” Gold Fields’ operations are subject to water use licenses, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Under South African and Ghanaian laws, respectively, Gold Fields’ South Deep, Tarkwa and Damang operations are subject to water use licenses that govern each operation’s water usage and that require, among other things, mining operations to achieve and maintain certain water quality limits regarding all water discharges. Gold Fields is required to comply with these regulations under its permits and licenses and any failure to do so could result in the curtailment or halting of production at the affected locations. Gold Fields continues to use all reasonable and practical measures to remove underground water to permit the routine safe functioning of South Deep. South Deep was issued with a water use licence in November 2011. Certain conditions and other aspects of the approved license were identified as requiring modification and an application to address these was submitted to the Department of Water Affairs, or DWA, in February 2012. A further amended water use license application was submitted to the DWA in November 2013, primarily to reflect the results of a re-assessment of expected water use requirements and a changing water balance. Gold Fields is currently awaiting a response from the DWA in relation to this submission. Gold Fields expects to incur significant expenditure to achieve and maintain compliance with the license requirements at South Deep. Gold Fields is also implementing a water management strategy in an effort to satisfy the conditions of its water use license and other relevant regulatory requirements, and prevent short and long-term acid mine drainage, or AMD, issues at its South African operation. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will be in compliance with its licensing agreements within the required timeframe due primarily to the associated regulatory approval processes. Any failure on Gold Fields’ part to achieve or maintain compliance with the requirements of its water use licenses with respect to any of its operations could result in Gold Fields being subject to substantial claims, penalties, fees and expenses; significant delays in operations; or the loss of the relevant water use license, which could curtail or halt production at the affected operation. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields has experienced and may experience further acid mine drainage related pollution, which may compromise its ability to comply with its water use licenses. Gold Fields has identified incidences of AMD, and the risk of potential short-term and long-term AMD issues, specifically at its Cerro Corona mine, its South Deep mine and, at currently immaterial levels, its Tarkwa, Damang and St. Ives mines. AMD occurs when certain sulfide minerals in rocks are exposed to oxidizing conditions, such as the presence of oxygen, combined with water. AMD can occur under natural conditions or as a result of the sulfide minerals that are encountered and exposed to oxidation during mining or during storage in waste rock dumps, ore stockpiles or tailings dams. The acidic water that forms usually contains iron and other metals if they are contained in the host rock. Gold Fields has commissioned several technical studies to identify the steps required to prevent or mitigate AMD at its facilities but none of these studies have allowed Gold Fields to generate a reliable estimate of the potential impact of AMD on the Company. Gold Fields is implementing a water management strategy at South Deep as well as various water treatments and mine rehabilitation options at its affected operations. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will be successful in preventing or mitigating any current or potential AMD issues. 16 Table of Contents The existence of AMD issues at any of Gold Fields’ operations could cause it to fail to comply with its water use license requirements and could expose Gold Fields to fines, mine closures, production curtailment, additional operating costs and other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, production and results of operations. Gold Fields’ mineral rights are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ right to own and exploit mineral reserves and deposits is governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the mineral properties are located. Currently, a significant portion of Gold Fields’ reserves and deposits are located in countries where mining rights could be suspended or canceled should it breach its obligations in respect of the acquisition and exploitation of these rights. In all of the countries where Gold Fields operates, the formulation or implementation of governmental policies on certain issues may be unpredictable. This may include changes in laws relating to mineral rights and ownership of mining assets and the right to prospect and mine, and, in extreme cases, nationalization, expropriation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits agreements and contracts. For example, Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa are subject to legislation regulating mineral rights. This includes broad-based black economic empowerment, or BEE, legislation designed to effect the entry of HDSAs into the mining industry and increase their participation in the South African economy. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Development Act, or MPRDA, came into effect on May 1, 2004. The MPRDA transferred ownership of mineral resources to the South African people with the South African government acting as custodian in order to, among other things, promote equitable access to the nation’s mineral resources by South Africans, expand opportunities for historically disadvantaged persons who wish to participate in the South African mining industry and advance social and economic development. As custodian, the South African government exercises regulatory control over the exploitation of mineral resources and does so by exercising the power to the grant the rights required to prospect and mine for minerals. Mining companies were required to apply for the right to mine and/or prospect and to convert existing mining rights to “new order” mining rights. In order to qualify for these rights, applicants need to satisfy the South African government that the grant of such a right will advance the open-ended broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements of the MPRDA. The MPRDA also required that mining companies submit social and labor plans, or SLPs, which set out their commitments relating to human resource development, labor planning and economic development planning to the DMR. In order to provide guidance on the fulfillment of these broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements to the mining industry, the DMR published the Mining Charter, which became effective on May 1, 2004. The Mining Charter includes a requirement that each mining company achieve a 15% HSDA ownership of mining assets within five years and a 26% HSDA ownership of mining assets within 10 years. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights—The MPRDA”. In 2010, the DMR introduced the Amended Mining Charter which, among other things, includes a requirement that mining companies achieve a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation by 2014 at executive management (board) level, senior management (executive committee) level, core and critical skills, middle management level and junior management level. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights.” In April 2013, Gold Fields submitted a new SLP for South Deep to replace its original SLP submitted in 2010 and is awaiting a response from the DMR. In late 2013, the DMR announced that it has launched audits of mining companies to determine their compliance with the BEE requirements of the Mining Charter and Amended Mining Charter. The implementation and enforcement of these requirements during fiscal 2014 may be contentious and may lead to labor disruptions. While Gold Fields believes that it is compliant with the BEE requirements of the Mining Charter and Amended Mining Charter, should the DMR determine that Gold Fields is not in compliance, Gold Fields may be required to engage in remedial steps, including changes to management, changes to its shareholding structure and actions that require shareholder approval. If the DMR were to determine that Gold Fields is not in compliance, Gold Fields may challenge such a decision in court. Any such court action may be expensive and there is no guarantee that Gold Fields’ challenge would be successful. Failure by Gold Fields’ South Deep operation to 17 Table of Contents comply with any of South Africa’s empowerment requirements may result in the cancelation or suspension of Gold Fields’ existing mining rights and may prevent Gold Fields from obtaining any new mining rights in South Africa. There is no guarantee that any steps Gold Fields has already taken or might take in the future will ensure the successful renewal of its existing mining rights, the retaining of new mining rights, the granting of further new mining rights or that the terms of renewals of its rights would not be significantly less favorable to Gold Fields than the terms of its current rights. Any further adjustment to the ownership structure of Gold Fields’ South African mining assets in order to meet BEE requirements could have a material adverse effect on the value of Gold Fields’ securities. Failure by Gold Fields to comply with mineral rights legislation in any of the jurisdictions in which it operates may cause it to lose the right to mine and may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Further, Gold Fields may, in the future, incur significant costs as a result of changes in the interpretation of existing laws, or the imposition of new laws, which may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Some of Gold Fields’ tenements in Australia are subject to native title claims and include Aboriginal heritage sites, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Certain of Gold Fields’ tenements are subject to current native title claims, including a number of mining tenements held by St. Ives which are the subject of an ongoing native title claim brought by the Ngadju People, or the Ngadju Claim. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Native Claim.” Other tenements may become the subject of native title claims if Gold Fields seeks to expand or otherwise change its interest in rights to those tenements. There are also a number of recognized Aboriginal cultural heritage sites located on certain of Gold Fields’ tenements. Native title and Aboriginal cultural heritage legislation protects the claims and determined rights of Aboriginal people in relation to the land and waters throughout Australia in certain circumstances. Native title claims, including the Ngadju Claim, could require costly negotiations with the registered claimants and could have implications for Gold Fields’ access to or use of its tenements and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Similarly, there are risks that if Aboriginal cultural heritage sites are damaged or materially altered as a result of current or future operations, Gold Fields could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties under relevant legislation. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Land Claims.” Gold Fields utilizes information technology and communications systems, the failure of which could significantly impact its operations and business. Gold Fields utilizes and is reliant on various information technology and communications systems, in particular SAP, payroll and time and attendance applications. Damage or interruption to Gold Fields’ information technology and communications systems, whether due to accidents, human error, natural events or malicious acts, may lead to important data being irretrievably lost or damaged, thereby adversely affecting Gold Fields’ business, prospects and results of operations. Gold Fields has provided certain guarantees on notes issued by Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited. If Gold Fields were to become obligated to make payments under these guarantees, its results of operations would be materially and adversely impacted. On September 30, 2010, Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited, or Orogen, announced the issue of $1,000,000,000 4.875% guaranteed notes due October 7, 2020, or the Notes, issued on October 7, 2010. The 18 Table of Contents payment of all amounts due in respect of the Notes was unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by Gold Fields, Sibanye Gold, Gold Fields Operations Limited, or GFO, and Gold Fields Holdings Company (BVI) Limited, or GFH, or, together, the Guarantors, on a joint and several basis. The Notes and guarantees constitute direct, unsubordinated and (subject to the negative pledge provisions related to further capital market indebtedness) unsecured obligations of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively, and rank equally with all other existing and future unsubordinated and unsecured obligations from time to time outstanding of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively. Each of Gold Fields and the other Guarantors have entered into an indemnity agreement, or the Indemnity Agreement, in favor of Sibanye Gold in order to indemnify Sibanye Gold against any loss caused to Sibanye Gold in circumstances where Sibanye Gold is required to make a payment to noteholders or the trustee of the Notes by virtue of its guarantee of the Notes. If Gold Fields or the other Guarantors were to become obligated to indemnify Sibanye Gold, it could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, market conditions may negatively impact Gold Fields’ ability to obtain financing for amounts it becomes required to pay under its obligations as guarantor, as well as the rate of interest required to finance these amounts. Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. Gold Fields carries significant debt relative to its shareholder equity. As of December 31, 2013, Gold Fields’ consolidated debt was approximately $2.1 billion. Approximately $0.9 billion of Gold Fields’ consolidated debt securities come due over the 36 months following the date of this annual report. Gold Fields’ significant levels of debt can adversely affect it in several other respects, including: • limiting its ability to access the capital markets; • exposing it to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise its borrowing costs and could limit its access to capital; • hindering its flexibility to plan for or react to changing market, industry or economic conditions; • limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, or other uses; • making it more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; • increasing the risk that it will need to sell assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; or • increasing the risk that it may not meet the financial covenants contained in its debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments. The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if Gold Fields increases its borrowings. Any failure to make required debt payments could, among other things, adversely affect Gold Fields’ ability to conduct operations or raise capital, which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations or financial condition. Shareholders outside South Africa may not be able to participate in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. Securities laws of certain jurisdictions may restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow participation by certain shareholders in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. In particular, holders of Gold Fields securities who are located in the United States (including those who hold 19 Table of Contents ordinary shares or ADSs) may not be able to participate in securities offerings by or on behalf of Gold Fields unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such securities or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available thereunder. Securities laws of certain other jurisdictions may also restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow the participation of all holders in such jurisdictions in future issues of securities carried out by Gold Fields. Holders who have a registered address or are resident in, or who are citizens of, countries other than South Africa should consult their professional advisors as to whether they require any governmental or other consents or approvals or need to observe any other formalities to enable them to participate in any offering of Gold Fields securities. Investors in the United States and other jurisdictions outside South Africa may have difficulty bringing actions, and enforcing judgments, against Gold Fields, its directors and its executive officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any state thereof or under the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa. Gold Fields is incorporated in South Africa. All of Gold Fields’ directors and executive officers (as well as Gold Fields’ independent registered public accounting firm) reside outside of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of the assets of Gold Fields are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce against these persons or Gold Fields a judgment obtained in a United States court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities or other laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, investors in other jurisdictions outside South Africa may face similar difficulties. Investors should be aware that it is the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, it does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. South African courts will usually implement their own procedural laws and, where an action based on an international contract is brought before a South African court, the capacity of the parties to the contract will usually be determined in accordance with South African law. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws or the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa may be brought before South African courts. Further, a plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. In addition, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South Africa. Investors should also be aware that a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts only if certain conditions are met. Investors may face liquidity risk in trading Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on JSE Limited. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. The ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on the JSE in a timely manner, especially in a large block trade, may be restricted by this limited liquidity. See “The Offer and Listing—JSE Limited”. Gold Fields may not pay dividends or make similar payments to its shareholders in the future and any dividend payment may be subject to withholding tax. Gold Fields pays cash dividends only if funds are available for that purpose. Whether funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including the amount of cash available and Gold Fields’ capital expenditures (on both existing infrastructure as well as on exploration and other projects) and other cash requirements existing at 20 Table of Contents the time. Under South African law, Gold Fields will be entitled to pay a dividend or similar payment to its shareholders only if it meets the solvency and liquidity tests set out in the Companies Act No. 71 of 2008, or the Companies Act, and Gold Fields’ Memorandum of Incorporation. Given these factors and the Board of Directors’ discretion to declare cash dividends or other similar payments, dividends may not be paid in the future. It should be noted that a 15% withholding tax on dividends declared by South African resident companies to non-resident shareholders or non-resident ADS holders was introduced with effect from April 1, 2012. See “Additional Information—Taxation—Certain South African Tax Considerations—Withholding Tax on Dividends”. Gold Fields’ non-South African shareholders face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations since any dividends will be paid in Rand. Dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares have historically been paid in Rand. The U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of future dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares, if any, will be adversely affected by potential future reductions in the value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. In the future, it is possible that there will be changes in South African Exchange Control Regulations, such that dividends paid out of trading profits will not be freely transferable outside South Africa to shareholders who are not residents of the CMA. See “Additional Information—South African Exchange Control Limitations Affecting Security Holders”. Gold Fields’ ordinary shares are subject to dilution upon the exercise of Gold Fields’ outstanding share options. Shareholders’ equity interests in Gold Fields will be diluted to the extent of future exercises or settlements of rights under the GF Management Incentive Scheme, the Gold Fields Limited 2005 Share Plan, the 2005 Non-Executive Share Plan and any additional rights. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The GF Management Incentive Scheme” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The Gold Fields Limited 2005 Share Plan”. Gold Fields shares are also subject to dilution in the event that the Board is required to issue new shares in compliance with BEE legislation. 21 Table of Contents 