ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the risks identified elsewhere in this report, the following risk factors apply to our business, results of operations and financial conditions: Risks Relating to our Business Our business is adversely affected by increases in fuel prices. Aircraft fuel costs constitute a significant portion of Hawaiian’s operating expenses. Fuel costs represented 25.2% and 19.6% of Hawaiian’s operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based on gallons expected to be consumed in 2006, for every one cent change in the cost per gallon of jet fuel, Hawaiian’s annual fuel expense increases or decreases by approximately $1.2 million. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by international political and economic circumstances, such as the war and post-war unrest in Iraq, as well as OPEC production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports, other conflicts in the Middle East, increasing demand from China, India and other developing countries, environmental concerns, weather and other unpredictable events. During the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused widespread disruption to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity along the U.S. Gulf Coast. As a result of these disruptions, the price of jet fuel increased significantly and the availability of jet fuel supplies was diminished. Further increases in jet fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies, whether as a result of natural disasters or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 12 From time to time, Hawaiian enters into heating oil forward contracts, jet fuel forward contracts, or other derivative instruments to hedge our financial exposure to fluctuations in the cost of jet fuel. See “Business—Fuel.” Our business is highly dependent on tourism, and our financial results could suffer if there is a downturn in tourism levels. Our principal base of operations is in Hawaii and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of travelers (mostly tourists) to, from and among the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaii tourism levels are affected by, among other things, the political and economic climate in Hawaii’s main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, promotional spending by competing destinations, the popularity of Hawaii as a tourist destination relative to other vacation options, and other global factors, including natural disasters, safety and security. From time to time, various events and industry specific problems such as strikes have had a negative impact on tourism in Hawaii. In addition, the potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the threat of other negative world events has had and may in the future again have a material adverse effect on Hawaii tourism. No assurance can be given that the level of passenger traffic to Hawaii will not decline in the future. A decline in the level of Hawaii passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility. Our profitability and liquidity are sensitive to seasonal volatility primarily due to leisure and holiday travel patterns. Hawaii is a popular vacation destination. Traffic levels are typically stronger during June, July, August and December and considerably weaker at other times of the year. During weaker travel periods, we may utilize discounted fare pricing strategies to increase our traffic volume. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but are also impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. These factors include the extent and nature of fare changes and competition from other airlines, changing levels of operations, national and international events, fuel prices and general economic conditions, including inflation. Because a substantial portion of both personal and business airline travel is discretionary, the industry tends to experience adverse financial results in general economic downturns. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Additionally, airlines generally require substantial liquidity to sustain continued operations under most conditions. Our business is impacted by the competitive advantages held by full service airlines in the transpacific market. In the transpacific market, most of our competition comes from full service legacy airlines such as United Airlines, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and Northwest Airlines. Legacy airlines have a number of competitive advantages relative to Hawaiian that historically have enabled them to obtain higher fares than Hawaiian: · Legacy airlines generate passenger traffic from throughout the U.S. mainland. In contrast, Hawaiian lacks a comparable network to feed passengers to its transpacific flights and is therefore more reliant on passenger demand in the cities we serve. · Most legacy airlines operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in market of passengers, depending on the economic strength of the hub city and the size of the customer group that frequent the airline. For example, United flows sufficient passenger traffic throughout the U.S. mainland to schedule approximately 11 flights a day, depending on seasonality, between San Francisco and the Hawaiian islands, which gives San Francisco residents wishing to travel to Hawaii a large number of United non-stop flight choices to Oahu, Maui, Kauai and the Big Island, while 13 Hawaiian, without feed traffic, can offer only one flight per day. In contrast, Honolulu, the hub of our operations, does not originate much transpacific travel, nor does it have the city strength or potential customer franchise of a city such as Chicago or Dallas necessary to provide Hawaiian with a built-in market. Tickets to Hawaii are for the most part not sold in Honolulu, but rather on the mainland, making Honolulu primarily a destination rather than origin of passenger traffic. Our business is increasingly impacted by competition from low cost carriers. Hawaiian has in the past been largely insulated from direct competition from low cost carriers or LCCs. Most LCCs have lacked the fleet and infrastructure necessary to provide long-haul trans-oceanic service. The Hawaii market has, however, in recent years, seen growing LCC competition from Aloha and ATA, which increased service to Hawaii from San Francisco and other cities in 2003, and US Airways which commenced service to Hawaii at the end of 2005. We also face the threat of more LCC competition in the future. Furthermore, a more fundamental and immediate consequence for us of the proliferation of LCCs is the response from full service legacy airlines, who are meeting the competition from LCCs by significantly reducing costs and adjusting their route networks to divert resources to long-haul markets such as Hawaii, where LCC competition is less severe. The result is that the legacy airlines have at the same time reduced their costs of operation and increased capacity in the Hawaii market. Additional capacity to Hawaii, whether from legacy airlines or LCCs, could result in a decrease in our share of the transpacific market, a decline in our transpacific yields, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additional potential competitors have announced their intentions to launch interisland air service. In the interisland market, we face competition principally from two other airlines, Aloha Airlines and Island Air. In addition, Mesa Airlines, a regional carrier based in Phoenix, Arizona, has announced its intention to begin flying an interisland schedule with up to six 50-seat regional jets in the second quarter of 2006. If the additional capacity described by Mesa Airlines is added to existing interisland capacity, it could have a significant negative impact on interisland yields and/or passenger traffic to Hawaiian and ultimately our financial condition. See “Legal Proceedings.” Demand for interisland service is declining, and is expected to decline for the foreseeable future. The demand for interisland service has been steadily declining, as other airlines have increased direct service from the mainland to Oahu’s neighbor islands, obviating the need for interisland transfers, and as the infrastructure, particularly the availability of goods and services, in the neighbor islands improves. The total size of the interisland market is, therefore, expected to continue to shrink for the foreseeable future. A decline in the level of interisland passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business requires substantial financial and operating leverage. The airline industry operates on low gross profit margins and revenue that varies substantially in relation to fixed operating costs. Due to high fixed costs, the expenses of each flight do not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, but the revenue generated from a particular flight is directly related to the number of passengers carried. Accordingly, while a decrease in the number of passengers carried would cause a corresponding decrease in revenue (if not offset by higher fares), it may result in a disproportionately greater decrease in profits. An increase in the number of passengers carried would have the opposite effect. 14 We are dependent on satisfactory labor relations. Labor costs are a significant component of airline expenses and can substantially impact an airline’s results. Labor and related benefit costs represented approximately 28.5% and 32.8%, respectively, of Hawaiian’s operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. We may experience pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees in the future. We may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of one or more of our labor unions. We cannot assure you that these labor unions will not require additional wages or benefits in return for their consent. In addition, we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, mechanical group employees, clerical group employees, flight attendants, dispatchers and network engineers which are amendable in less than three years. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees’ unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect us. If we are unable to reach an agreement with any unionized work group, we may be subject to future work interruptions and/or stoppages, which may hamper or halt operations. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain key executives, particularly Mark B. Dunkerley, our Chief Executive Officer, with whom we have entered into a three-year employment agreement. Competition for such personnel in the airline industry is highly competitive, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our Chief Executive Officer or other key executives or that we can attract other qualified personnel in the future. Any inability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives, or attract and retain additional qualified executives, could have a negative impact on our operations. We are increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business. Any substantial or repeated failures of our computer or communications systems could impact our customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Like all companies, our computer and communication systems may be vulnerable to disruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, power or equipment failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have implemented various technology security initiatives, but there can be no assurance that these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions of our systems. We are highly reliant on third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services for our operations, and termination of our third-party agreements could have a potentially adverse effect on our financial results. We have agreements with Alaska Airlines, US Airways, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, Island Air, and certain other contractors, to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations. These facilities and services include aircraft maintenance, code sharing, reservations, computer services, frequent flyer programs, passenger processing, ground facilities, baggage and cargo handling and personnel training. Our reliance on these third parties to continue to provide these important aspects of our business impact our ability to conduct our business effectively. · Maintenance agreements. We have maintenance agreements with Delta Air Lines, Goodrich Aviation Technical Services, the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation, Rolls Royce, Honeywell and others to provide maintenance services for our aircraft, engines, parts and equipment. If one or more of our maintenance providers terminate their respective agreements, we would have to seek alternative sources of maintenance service or undertake the 15 maintenance of these aircraft or components ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so on a basis that is as cost-effective as our current maintenance arrangements. · Code sharing agreements. We have code sharing agreements with Alaska Airlines, US Airways, American Airlines, American Eagle, Continental Airlines, Island Air, and Northwest Airlines. We also participate in the frequent flyer programs of Alaska Airlines, US Airways, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Northwest Airlines and Virgin Atlantic Airways. Although these agreements increase our ability to be more competitive, they also increase our reliance on third parties. · Fuel agreements. We have entered into a jet fuel sale and purchase contract to provide us with a substantial amount of jet fuel, which we anticipate will be sufficient to meet all of our jet fuel needs for flights originating in Honolulu during 2006. If the fuel provider terminates its agreement with us, we would have to seek an alternative source of jet fuel. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so on a basis that is as cost-effective as our current arrangement. We have agreements with vendors at all airports we serve to provide us with fuel. Should any of these vendors cease to provide service to Hawaiian for whatever reason, our operations could be adversely affected. · Travel agency and wholesale agreements. In 2005, passenger ticket sales from travel agencies and wholesalers constituted approximately 27% of our total operating revenue. Travel agents and wholesalers generally have a choice between one or more airlines when booking a customer’s flight. Accordingly, any effort by travel agencies or wholesalers to favor another airline or to disfavor us could adversely affect our revenue. Although we intend to maintain favorable relations with travel agencies and wholesalers, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do business with us. The loss of any one or several travel agencies and or wholesalers may have a material adverse affect on our operations. We are subject to various risks as a result of our fleet concentration in Boeing 717s. Our interisland fleet consists of 717 aircraft. In January 2005, Boeing Commercial Airplanes (Boeing) announced it would discontinue the production of that aircraft model in 2006. As a result, the availability of parts and maintenance support for 717 aircraft may become limited in future years. Additionally, we may experience increased costs in later years associated with parts acquisition for and/or maintenance support of this aircraft. Certain other carriers operating with a more diversified fleet may be better able to withstand such an event, if such an event occurred in the future. Our business may be adversely impacted by the existence of a provision in Hawaiian’s aircraft leases with one of its lessors which could lead to the termination of up to seven 767-300ER leases beginning in 2007. We currently lease seven Boeing 767-300ER aircraft from AWMS I, an affiliate of AWAS, formerly Ansett Worldwide Aviation Services, Inc. (AWAS). AWAS can terminate those leases early, after not less than 180 days prior notice to Hawaiian, beginning in March 2007. AWAS can terminate up to two of the leases between March 21, 2007 and September 20, 2007, up to three of the leases between September 21, 2007 and March 20, 2008 and up to two of the leases between March 21, 2008 and September 20, 2009. After September 20, 2009, AWAS can terminate any or all seven of the leases on not less than 180 days prior notice. If AWAS successfully exercises any or all of its early termination options, Hawaiian is responsible for the rents due under the leases until the aircraft are returned to AWAS (or its designees) and for the aircraft return provisions prescribed in the lease agreements. Accordingly, if AWAS terminates one or more of its leases early, and we are unable to obtain additional replacement aircraft, our operations could be adversely affected. See “Business—Properties—Aircraft.” Morgan Stanley, the owner of AWAS, has announced that AWAS will be sold to Terra Firma, a London-based private equity firm. Hawaiian has advised AWAS, Morgan Stanley and Terra Firma that Hawaiian believes it may have the ability to successfully challenge AWAS’s exercise of the termination 16 rights, and the parties are engaged in discussions to attempt to reach a consensual resolution of the issue. There can be no assurance that these discussions will resolve the matter in our favor, or that any challenges would succeed if litigated. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, we had substantial indebtedness, including the remaining balance of $20.8 million of the $25.0 million term loan portion of a $50.0 million senior secured credit facility which was scheduled to mature on June 2, 2008, a $25.0 million junior term loan which was scheduled to mature on June 2, 2008, $27.5 million of notes payable to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that mature in June 2011, and $52.3 million of subordinated convertible notes which mature on June 1, 2010 and are convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $4.35 per share commencing on June 1, 2006. On March 14, 2006, the term loan portion of our senior secured credit facility was increased from $25.0 million to $62.5 million, and our junior term loan was increased from $25.0 million to $72.5 million. We intend to use a portion of the increased borrowings under the senior and junior credit facilities to redeem our Series A Subordinated Convertible Notes (the Series A Notes) and Series B Subordinated Convertible Notes (the Series B Notes and, together with the Series A Notes, the Notes) at 105% of the aggregate principal amount, plus all accrued and unpaid interest due and payable thereunder, late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2006. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The requirement to service our debt makes us more vulnerable to general adverse economic conditions, requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes, limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, and places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any other competitor that has less debt than we do. Certain of our financing agreements include financial covenants that impose substantial restrictions on our financial and business operations. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and junior term loan agreements with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. and Canyon Capital Advisors, LLC, respectively, restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other payments on investments, consummate asset sales or similar transactions, create liens, merge or consolidate with any other person, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. The terms of the agreements contain covenants that require us to meet certain financial tests to avoid a default that might lead to early termination of the facilities. Moreover, these agreements contain covenants that require us to meet certain financial tests. If we were not able to comply with these covenants, our outstanding obligations under these facilities could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on our business. Management, through documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting had a material weakness as of December 31, 2005. In response to this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we are implementing additional controls and procedures. Furthermore, we intend to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, and the implementation and testing of these continued improvements could result in increased cost and could divert management attention away from operating our business. See “Controls and Procedures.” 17 In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, the correction of any such material weakness or significant deficiency could require additional remedial measures which could be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or if we continue to experience material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. Our share price could be subject to extreme price fluctuations, and stockholders could have difficulty trading shares. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations could be in response to operating results, changes in the competitive activity in the markets we serve, increased jet fuel prices, additional bankruptcy filings among the airlines, increased government regulation and general market conditions. Additionally, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the company’s stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level. Risks Relating to the Airline Industry The continued threat of terrorist attacks may adversely impact our business. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the airline industry has experienced profound changes, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which have resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks, could further adversely impact us and the airline industry. In addition, other world events and developments may further decrease demand for air travel, and could result in further increased costs for us and the airline industry. We are currently unable to estimate the impact of any future terrorist attacks. However, any future terrorist attacks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The airline industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The airline industry is highly competitive, and many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. The commencement of or increase in service on our routes by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. In the past, competing airlines have reduced fares and increased capacity beyond market demand on routes served by us in order to maintain or generate additional revenue. Further fare reductions and capacity increases by competing airlines could force us to reduce fares or adjust our capacity to levels that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Many of our competitors have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Either aggressive marketing tactics or a prolonged fare war initiated by one or more of these competitors could adversely impact our financial resources and affect our ability to compete in these markets. 18 Vigorous price competition exists in the airline industry, with competitors frequently offering discounted fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during weaker travel periods, generate cash flow or increase relative market share in selected markets. Airline profit levels are highly sensitive to changes in fuel costs, fare levels and passenger demand. Passenger demand and fare levels are influenced by, among other things, the state of the global economy, domestic and international events, airline capacity and pricing actions taken by carriers. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, turbulent international events (including the war and post-war unrest in Iraq), high fuel prices and extensive price discounting by carriers have resulted in significant losses for the airline industry. The introduction of broadly available, deeply discounted fares by a U.S. airline could result in lower yields for the entire industry and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements that result in significant costs. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airlines. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the cost to us and our industry is likely to be significant. In addition, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not available. We cannot provide assurance that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect us financially. Our operations may be adversely impacted by increased security measures mandated by regulatory authorities. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports significantly increased their rates and charges to air carriers, including us, and may do so again in the future. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, the Department of Homeland Security and the Transportation Security Administration and other agencies within the Department of Homeland Security have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. The Department of Homeland Security has announced greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded use of federal air marshals on flights (thus displacing revenue passengers), investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. A large part of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of increasing the hassle of air transportation and thus decreasing traffic. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments subsequent to September 11, 2001 have increased our costs, and additional measures taken in the future 19 may result in similar adverse effects. The budget for fiscal year 2006 submitted by the Bush Administration increases the passenger security fee to $5.00 from $2.50, which, if implemented, would result in an estimated additional annual tax of $1.3 billion on the airline industry. We cannot provide assurance that additional security requirements or security-related fees enacted in the future will not adversely affect us financially. Our insurance costs have increased substantially in recent years and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We carry types and amounts of insurance customary in the airline industry, including coverage for general liability, passenger liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability and workers’ compensation. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain commercial airline insurance with a major group of independent insurers that regularly participate in world aviation insurance markets including public liability insurance and coverage for losses resulting from the physical destruction or damage to our aircraft. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed, or that we will not bear substantial losses from accidents. We could incur substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. After the events of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such coverage as well as for aviation insurance in general. We also purchased from the U.S. government third-party war-risk insurance coverage. This coverage has been extended by the FAA under the Homeland Security Act to December 31, 2006, after which time it is anticipated that the federal policy will be extended unless insurance for war-risk coverage in necessary amounts is available from independent insurers or a group insurance program is instituted by the U.S. carriers and the DOT. However, there can be no assurance that the federal policy will be renewed or an alternative policy can be obtained in the commercial market at a reasonable cost. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity in the event of an aircraft accident. We are exposed to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft accident. Any such accident could involve not only the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss of revenue, but also significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. In addition, any aircraft accident or incident could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. We are at risk of losses in the event of an outbreak of diseases. In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which primarily had an adverse impact on our Pacific operations. If there were another outbreak of a disease (such as SARS or avian influenza (Bird Flu)) that adversely affects travel behavior, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 20 