Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the near-term, the success of our business will depend on many factors, including: • whether we are able to increase market demand for, and sales of, our Zegerid® (omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate) Capsules and Powder for Oral Suspension prescription products, including our ability to: • achieve greater market acceptance of our products by our targeted primary care physicians and gastroenterologists; • maintain adequate levels of reimbursement coverage for our products from third-party payors; and • compete effectively within the gastrointestinal, or GI, and primary care fields, where many other products are well-established and successful and are marketed by competitors with significantly more experience and resources; • whether we are able to maintain patent protection for our products, including whether we are successful in the lawsuits we filed against Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par, for infringement of patents covering our Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension products; and • whether we will be able to further diversify our sources of revenue and product portfolio, including our ability to obtain additional financing to support the licensing or acquisition of new products. Each of these factors, as well as other factors that may impact our business, are described in more detail in the following discussion. Although the factors highlighted above are among the most significant, any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time, and you should consider all of the factors described when evaluating our business. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry At this time, we are largely dependent on the commercial success of our Zegerid products and proton pump inhibitor, or PPI, technology, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve commercial success with these products and technology. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development and commercialization of our Zegerid family of prescription products, which are currently being marketed in capsule and powder for oral suspension dosage forms. These products are proprietary immediate-release formulations of omeprazole, a PPI, and are intended to treat or reduce the risk of a variety of upper GI diseases and disorders, including gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend on the commercial success of our currently marketed products, which in turn, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully increase market demand for, and sales of, Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, through our own sales force, our contract sales agreement with inVentiv Commercial Services, LLC, or inVentiv, our co-promotion arrangement with Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Otsuka America, and any other arrangements that we may later establish; 22 Table of Contents • successfully maintain patent protection for our Zegerid family of products, including whether we are successful in the lawsuits we filed against Par for infringement of patents covering our Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension products; • establish and maintain effective marketing programs and continue to build brand identity; • obtain greater acceptance of the products by physicians, patients and third-party payors and obtain and maintain distribution at the retail level; • establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; and • maintain commercial manufacturing capabilities as necessary to meet commercial demand for the products, as well as maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers. Our ability to generate revenue in the longer term will also depend on whether our strategic alliances with Glaxo Group Limited, an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline, plc, or GSK, and Schering-Plough Healthcare Products, Inc., or Schering-Plough, will lead to the successful commercialization of additional omeprazole products using our patented PPI technology. We expect to incur significant costs as we continue to support the commercialization of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension. We have realized modest growth in sales of our Zegerid products to date relative to our expenses to date, including expenses associated with our commercial operations, and we may be unable to achieve greater market acceptance. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized $79.4 million in Zegerid net product sales. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $304.0 million. We cannot be certain that our continued marketing of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, including the efforts of inVentiv and Otsuka America, will result in increased demand for, and sales of, our products or that we will receive any milestone payments or sales-based royalties from our strategic alliances with GSK and Schering-Plough. The potential demand for our currently marketed prescription products may also be negatively impacted by the availability of any OTC products developed and marketed by Schering-Plough in the U.S. pursuant to our strategic alliance. If we fail to successfully commercialize our prescription products or GSK and Schering-Plough fail to successfully commercialize products using our patented PPI technology or are significantly delayed in doing so, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business and attain profitability, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. In addition, even if our products continue to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new products or technologies are introduced that are more favorably received than our products, are more cost-effective or otherwise render our products obsolete. If we are unable to maintain adequate levels of reimbursement for our Zegerid products on reasonable pricing terms, their commercial success may be severely hindered. Our ability to sell our products may depend in large part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products is available from private health insurers, managed care organizations, government entities and others. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain their costs. We cannot predict actions third-party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. Reduced or partial reimbursement coverage could make our products less attractive to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians and may not be adequate for us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in our products or compete on price. 23 Table of Contents In many cases, insurers and other healthcare payment organizations encourage the use of less expensive alternative generic brands and OTC products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. The availability of generic prescription and OTC PPI products has created, and will continue to create, a competitive reimbursement environment for our prescription Zegerid branded products. Insurers and other healthcare payment organizations frequently make the generic or OTC alternatives more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic or OTC product to the patient is less than the net cost of a prescription branded product. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic or OTC product competitors and the prescription benefit policies of insurers could have a negative effect on our product revenues and profitability. Even though we are eligible to receive sales-based royalties on OTC products under our OTC license agreement with Schering-Plough, those potential revenues could be offset by the impact of lost sales of our prescription products to the extent the OTC products are preferred by customers over our current prescription products. Many managed care organizations negotiate the price of medical services and products and develop formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization’s patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic or OTC products, our market share and gross margins could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. The competition among pharmaceutical companies to have their products approved for reimbursement also results in downward pricing pressure in the industry and in the markets where our products compete. In some cases, we aggressively discount our products in order to obtain reimbursement coverage, and we may not be successful in any efforts we take to mitigate the effect of a decline in average selling prices for our products. Declines in our average selling prices also reduce our gross margins. In addition, managed care initiatives to control costs may influence primary care physicians to refer fewer patients to gastroenterologists and other specialists. Reductions in these referrals could have a material adverse effect on the size of our potential market and increase costs to effectively promote GI products. Our account managers contact private health insurers, managed care organizations, government entities and other third-party payors, seeking reimbursement coverage for our products similar to that for branded delayed-release PPI products. The process for obtaining coverage can be lengthy and time-consuming, in some cases taking several months before a particular payor initially reviews our product, and we may ultimately be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage. Our competitors generally have larger account management organizations, as well as existing business relationships with third-party payors relating to their PPI products, as well as other portfolio products. Moreover, the current availability of generic and OTC delayed-release omeprazole products may make obtaining reimbursement coverage for our immediate-release products more difficult because our products also utilize omeprazole as an active ingredient. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products on favorable terms or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be materially adversely affected. Our strategic partners, GSK and Schering-Plough, may not successfully commercialize products using our patented PPI technology. In November 2007, we entered into a license agreement and a distribution agreement granting exclusive rights to GSK under our patented PPI technology to commercialize prescription and OTC products in up to 114 specified countries within Africa, Asia, the Middle-East, and Central and South America, and to distribute and sell Zegerid brand prescription products in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In October 2006, we entered into an OTC license agreement with Schering-Plough, pursuant to which we granted exclusive rights under our patented PPI technology to develop, manufacture, market and sell omeprazole products for the OTC market in the U.S. and Canada. Under these agreements, we depend on the efforts of GSK and Schering-Plough, and we have limited control over their commercialization efforts. For example, GSK and Schering-Plough may not commercialize products as fast as we would like or as fast as the market may expect and may not generate the level of sales that we would like. Any failures by GSK or Schering-Plough could have a negative impact on physician and patient 24 Table of Contents impressions of our prescription products in the U.S. Even if GSK’s and Schering-Plough’s efforts are successful, we will only receive specified milestone payments and royalties on net sales and may not enjoy the same financial rewards as we would have had we developed and launched the products ourselves. Furthermore, the availability of products developed by Schering-Plough using our patented PPI technology for the U.S. OTC market could lead to decreased demand for our prescription products in the U.S. We are also subject to risks associated with termination of our agreements with GSK and Schering-Plough. The GSK license and distribution agreements may be terminated by either party in the event of the other party’s uncured material breach or bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, GSK may terminate the license and distribution agreements on six months prior written notice to us at any time. The Schering-Plough license agreement may be terminated by either party if the other party is in material breach of its material obligations under the agreement and has not cured the breach within 30 days notice, provided that the cure period for late payments is 15 days, and provided further that all alleged breaches are subject to dispute resolution provisions set forth in the agreement. In addition, Schering-Plough may terminate the agreement in its entirety on 180 days prior written notice to us at any time after submitting its first new drug application, or NDA, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for a licensed product or if Schering-Plough does not receive marketing approval in the U.S. for a licensed product before a specified date. If GSK’s and Schering-Plough’s commercialization efforts are not successful, our ability to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business and attain profitability will be adversely affected. The market for the GI pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may limit our commercial opportunity. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive, particularly in the GI field, where currently marketed products are well-established and successful. Many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the pharmaceutical field. Our competitors include, among others, AstraZeneca plc, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc., Wyeth, Altana, Eisai Co., Ltd., Johnson & Johnson, Axcan Pharma Inc., Ferring Pharmaceuticals A/S, Merck & Co., Inc., Novartis AG, Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc and The Procter & Gamble Company, as well as several generic manufacturers. Many of these companies already offer products that target GERD and other GI diseases and disorders that we target. Given our relatively small size and the entry of our products into a market characterized by well-established drugs, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, may have significantly greater experience in: • developing prescription and OTC drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; and • launching, marketing, distributing and selling drugs. As a result, they may have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and other programs. Many of these companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, completing the regulatory process and showing safety and efficacy of products more rapidly than we do or developing products that are more effective than our products. Additionally, many of our competitors have greater resources to conduct clinical studies differentiating their products, as compared to our limited resources. Further, the products they develop may be based on new and different technology and may exhibit benefits relative to our products. Many of these companies with which we compete also have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Larger pharmaceutical companies typically have significantly larger field sales force organizations and 25 Table of Contents invest significant amounts in advertising and marketing their products, including through the purchase of television advertisements and the use of other direct-to-consumer methods. As a result, these larger companies are able to reach a greater number of physicians and consumers and reach them more frequently than we can with our smaller sales organization. It is also possible that our competitors may be able to reduce their cost of manufacturing so that they can aggressively price their products and secure a greater market share to our detriment. In addition, our competitors may be able to attract and retain qualified personnel and to secure capital resources more effectively than we can. Any of these events could adversely affect our business. Our Zegerid products compete with many other drug products focused on upper GI diseases and disorders, which could put downward pressure on pricing and market share and limit our ability to generate revenues. Our Zegerid products compete with many prescription and OTC products, including: Prescription Products: • PPIs: AstraZeneca plc’s Prilosec® and Nexium®, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc.’s Prevacid®, Wyeth’s and Altana’s Protonix®, Johnson & Johnson’s and Eisai Co., Ltd.’s Aciphex®, and generic delayed-release omeprazole and pantoprazole, among others; and • Histamine-2 receptor antagonists: Merck & Co., Inc.’s Pepcid®, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Zantac® and Tagamet® and Braintree Laboratories, Inc.’s Axid®, among others. Over-the-Counter Products: • PPIs: The Procter & Gamble Company’s Prilosec OTC® and store brand delayed-release omeprazole OTC products; • Histamine-2 receptor antagonists: Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Zantac, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Tagamet, and Johnson & Johnson’s and Merck & Co., Inc.’s Pepcid AC® and Pepcid Complete®, among others; and • Antacids: Johnson & Johnson’s and Merck and Co., Inc.’s Mylanta® and Rolaids®, Novartis AG’s Maalox® and GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Gaviscon® and Tums®, among others. In addition, various companies are developing new products, including motility agents, reversible acid inhibitors, cytoprotective compounds, new PPIs and products that act on the lower esophageal sphincter, or LES. We may be required to compete with these or other new products that have greater efficacy or other benefits relative to our products. Many of the currently marketed competitive products are available as generic products. For example, generic delayed-release omeprazole products in 10 mg and 20 mg dosage strengths and generic delayed-release pantoprazole products are currently available in the U.S. market, and we anticipate that additional generic delayed-release omeprazole products, including 40 mg dosage strengths, as well as other generic delayed-release PPIs, will enter the market. In addition, delayed-release omeprazole is available in a 20 mg dosage strength as a branded and store brand OTC product. We anticipate that other OTC PPI products will also enter the market. The existence of generic and OTC delayed-release PPI products could make it more difficult for branded prescription PPI products, including our Zegerid products, to gain or maintain market share and could cause prices for PPIs to drop, each of which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, the current availability of generic and OTC delayed-release omeprazole products may have an additional impact on demand and pricing for our immediate-release products because our products also utilize omeprazole as an active ingredient. We may also face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal 26 Table of Contents action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. The promotional efforts of inVentiv, under our contract sales organization agreement, and Otsuka America, under our co-promotion agreement, may not be successful in increasing market demand for, and sales of, our Zegerid prescription products. To support the promotion of our Zegerid prescription products, we have entered into a contract sales organization agreement with inVentiv and a co-promotion agreement with Otsuka America. Under our agreement with inVentiv, inVentiv is committed to provide up to approximately 140 fully-dedicated contract sales representatives to promote our Zegerid products in the U.S. Our agreement with inVentiv causes us to incur significant costs, and we cannot be sure that the efforts of the contract sales force will be successful. Under our co-promotion agreement, Otsuka America currently co-promotes Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension to targeted U.S. physicians. While our agreement with Otsuka America requires its field sales representatives to promote our products in a minimum number of primary details to target physicians, we cannot be sure that Otsuka America’s efforts will be successful. In addition, we and Otsuka America each have the right to terminate the agreement effective at any time by providing at least 120 days prior written notice, as well as other more limited termination rights. Any revenues we receive from sales of our products generated by the contract sales force, Otsuka America or any other third parties will depend upon the efforts of those other parties, which in many instances will not be within our control. If we are unable to maintain our agreements with inVentiv and Otsuka America or to effectively establish alternative arrangements to market our products more broadly than we can through our internal sales force, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, despite our arrangements with inVentiv and Otsuka America to expand efforts to promote our products, we still will not be able to cover all of the PPI prescribing physicians at the same level of reach and frequency as our competitors with branded PPI products. We depend on a limited number of wholesaler customers for retail distribution of our products, and if we lose any of our significant wholesaler customers, our business could be harmed. Our wholesaler customers include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and major drug chains. Sales to Cardinal, McKesson and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 32%, 32% and 14%, respectively, of our annual revenues during 2007. The loss of any of these wholesaler customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from our wholesaler customers. If we are unable to continue to manufacture our products on a commercial basis, our commercialization efforts will be materially harmed. The quantities of our products that our suppliers are able to manufacture in the future may fail to meet our quality specifications or may not be sufficient to meet potential commercial demand. Any problems or delays experienced in the manufacturing process for Zegerid Capsules or Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension may impair our ability to provide commercial quantities of the products, which would limit our ability to sell the products and would adversely affect our business. While we believe we ultimately could redesign our manufacturing processes or identify alternative suppliers in response to problems we may encounter as we manufacture our products, it could take significant time to do so and may require regulatory approval, and our products may not be available from alternate manufacturers at favorable prices. We do not currently have any manufacturing facilities and instead rely on third-party manufacturers. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we rely on third-party manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. Our manufacturers must comply with U.S. regulations, including the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, applicable to the manufacturing processes related to 27 Table of Contents pharmaceutical products, and their facilities must be inspected and approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies as part of their business. In addition, because many of our key manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., they must also comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. We have limited control over our third-party manufacturers, including with respect to regulatory compliance and quality assurance matters. Any delay or interruption of supply related to a third-party manufacturer’s failure to comply with regulatory or other requirements would limit our ability to make sales of our products. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and potential for product liability claims. With respect to any future products under development, if the FDA finds significant issues with any of our manufacturers during the pre-approval inspection process, the approval of those products could be delayed while the manufacturer addresses the FDA’s concerns, or we may be required to identify and obtain the FDA’s approval of a new supplier. This could result in significant delays before manufacturing of our products can begin, which in turn would delay commercialization of our products. In addition, the importation of pharmaceutical products into the U.S. is subject to regulation by the FDA, and the FDA can refuse to allow an imported product into the U.S. if it is not satisfied that the product complies with applicable laws or regulations. We rely on Norwich Pharmaceuticals, Inc., located in New York, as the current sole third-party manufacturer of Zegerid Capsules. In addition, we rely on a single third-party manufacturer located outside of the U.S., Patheon Inc., for the supply of Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, and we are obligated under our supply agreement to purchase a significant portion of our requirements of this product from Patheon. We also currently rely on a single third-party supplier located outside of the U.S., Union Quimico Farmaceutica, S.A., or Uquifa, for the supply of omeprazole, which is an active pharmaceutical ingredient in each of our current Zegerid products. We are obligated under our supply agreement with Uquifa to purchase all of our requirements of omeprazole from this supplier. We also currently have two approved suppliers for sodium bicarbonate, which is a component in our marketed powder for oral suspension and capsule products, and we rely on our third-party manufacturers to purchase the sodium bicarbonate. Additionally, we rely on single suppliers for certain excipients in our powder for oral suspension and capsule products. Any significant problem that our sole source manufacturers or suppliers experience could result in a delay or interruption in the supply to us until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate an alternative source of supply. In addition, because our sole source manufacturers and suppliers provide services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, they may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. In addition, to the extent GSK or Schering-Plough utilizes our suppliers, capacity at our suppliers may become further constrained. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture the finished forms of our pharmaceutical products or the active omeprazole and antacid pharmaceutical ingredients in our products on a commercial scale is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. Any new supplier of products or active pharmaceutical ingredients would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical trials, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier before we could distribute products from that supplier. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. Our resources have been primarily focused on commercializing our Zegerid products, and we may be unable to expand our product portfolio or integrate new products successfully. Our resources have been primarily focused on commercializing our Zegerid family of products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to diversify our product portfolio and further leverage our commercial capabilities through co-promotion, in-licensing or acquisition of additional marketed or late stage proprietary products. We may not be able to identify appropriate licensing or acquisition opportunities to expand and diversify our pipeline of products. Even if we identify an appropriate product, competition for it may be intense. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of a license or acquisition agreement on commercially acceptable terms. The negotiation of agreements to obtain rights to additional products or to acquire companies or their products or product 28 Table of Contents lines could divert our management’s time and resources from other elements of our existing business. Moreover, we may be unable to finance the licensing or acquisition of a new product or an acquisition target. If we issue shares of our common stock or other securities in one or more significant acquisitions, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their ownership interests. We might also incur debt or experience a decrease in cash available for our operations, or incur contingent liabilities and amortization expenses relating to identifiable intangible assets, in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not generate adequate revenues under our co-promotion agreements for Naprelan® Controlled Release Tablets and the Fleet® Phospho-soda® EZ-Prep™ Bowel Cleansing System to justify our level of promotional effort and expense under the agreements. In June 2007, we entered into a co-promotion agreement with Victory Pharma, Inc., or Victory, pursuant to which we agreed to co-promote Naprelan Controlled Release Tablets to our targeted primary care physicians in the U.S. Under the terms of the co-promotion agreement, we will receive a co-promotion fee equal to slightly more than half of the net sales value of the prescriptions generated by our target physicians, offset by an initial credit in recognition of existing sales. In August 2007, we entered into a co-promotion agreement with C.B. Fleet Company Incorporated, or Fleet, pursuant to which we agreed to co-promote the Fleet Phospho-soda EZ-Prep Bowel Cleansing System to our targeted gastroenterologists in the U.S. Under the terms of the co-promotion agreement, Fleet will pay us to promote the product based on a set fee per sales call, subject to a minimum and maximum number of sales calls. We will also have the opportunity to earn bonus payments if unit sales exceed predetermined baselines. Our ability to generate adequate revenues under the co-promotion agreements to justify the resources and the level of promotional effort we will have to expend is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to increase market demand and sales of the Naprelan and Fleet products; • adverse side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy of the Naprelan or Fleet products and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls; and • the potential for termination of the co-promotion arrangements. Our successful co-promotion of the Naprelan products is also dependent on the strength of the intellectual property surrounding the Naprelan products and the level of competition from other products, including a generic formulation of Naprelan, which is currently commercially available in a 500 mg dosage strength and is the subject of pending patent infringement litigation initiated by Elan Corporation, plc and/or its affiliates, as the patent holder for the Naprelan products. Our ability to successfully co-promote the Fleet product is also dependent on the FDA’s continued determination that the Fleet product is safe for its intended use. A recently filed citizen’s petition requests that the FDA withdraw oral sodium phosphate products for bowel cleansing from commercial marketing or reclassify them as prescription medications. Although the FDA has previously declined to act upon similar petitions filed in the past, we cannot be certain about how the FDA may act in the future. In addition, although our sales representatives will continue to promote our Zegerid products in the primary detail position, the co-promotion of the Naprelan and Fleet products could detract from their efforts to promote our Zegerid products and have an adverse impact on Zegerid sales. If our co-promotion efforts are not successful, our ability to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business and attain profitability may be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. In addition, because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with the government reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. Regulatory approval for our currently marketed products is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which we are able to support clinical safety and efficacy. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which our products are deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business will be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our regulatory approvals will be limited to those indications that are specifically submitted to the FDA for review. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of our Zegerid products and any other products that we market. Our Zegerid products and any other products that we market will continue to be subject to extensive regulation. These regulations impact many aspects of our operations, including the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the products. The FDA also frequently requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of these products. For example, in connection with the approval of our NDAs for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, we committed to commence clinical studies to evaluate the product in pediatric populations in 2005. We have not yet commenced any of the studies and, prior to doing so, will need to finalize study designs, including receiving FDA input on one of the proposed study designs, engage clinical research organizations and undertake other related activities. In addition, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare 30 Table of Contents item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. This practice is regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities, including, in particular, requirements concerning record keeping and control procedures. Any failure to comply with the regulations may result in significant criminal and civil penalties as well as damage to our credibility in the marketplace. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products, changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products, proposals concerning reimportation of pharmaceutical products and proposals concerning safety matters. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which became effective in January 2006, and mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of this new legislation, to date the new benefit, which is managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, has resulted in additional growth in the market for generic products and it may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for both generic and branded PPI products. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other proposals will be adopted, particularly in view of the upcoming presidential election in 2008 and the potential agenda of any new administration. As a result of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit or any other proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could harm our ability to operate our business efficiently, obtain collaborators and raise capital. We are also subject to additional price reporting obligations under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which became effective on January 1, 2007. Complying with these additional reporting obligations increases our administrative burden. In an attempt to protect against counterfeit drugs, California has enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect in January 2009, but the effective 31 Table of Contents date may be extended by the California Board of Pharmacy until January 2011. Compliance with the California electronic pedigree requirement will likely require an increase in our operational expenses, and we may not be able to comply with the requirement at the time it becomes effective, particularly if the California Board of Pharmacy does not extend the effective date of the legislation beyond January 2009. In addition, we may be obligated to comply with additional pedigree requirements enacted by other states in the future. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our products and the manufacture and sale of our Zegerid products and any other products we co-promote or otherwise commercialize. These risks exist even if a product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. For example, although we have not been named as a party, a significant number of product liability actions have been brought against Fleet relating to Fleet’s phospho-soda products, including at least one action involving the Fleet product that we co-promote. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could significantly harm our business by, among other things, reducing demand for our products, injuring our reputation and creating significant adverse media attention and costly litigation. Plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our insurance policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Although we have product and clinical trials liability insurance with a coverage limit of $15.0 million, this coverage may prove to be inadequate. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available for our commercial or clinical trial activities on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets, including our intellectual property. We rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for our commercial products, including services related to the distribution, storage and transportation of our products. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on one third-party service provider to provide key services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We place substantial reliance on this provider as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. Our reliance on third-party clinical investigators and clinical research organizations may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials or we may be unable to use the clinical data gathered if they fail to comply with regulatory requirements or perform under our agreements with them. As an integral component of our clinical development programs, we engage clinical investigators and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to enroll patients and conduct and manage our clinical studies. As a result, many key aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If the CROs and other third parties that we rely on for patient enrollment and other portions of our clinical trials fail to perform the clinical trials in a satisfactory manner and in compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, or fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them, we could face significant delays in completing our clinical trials or we may be unable to rely in the future on the clinical data generated. For example, the FDA has inspected and will 32 Table of Contents continue to inspect certain of our CROs’ operations and trial procedures and may issue notices of any observations of failure to comply with FDA-approved good clinical practices and other regulations. If our CROs or clinical investigators are unable to respond to such notices of observations in a satisfactory manner or otherwise resolve any issues identified by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, we may be unable to use the data gathered at those sites. To the extent a single CRO conducts clinical trials for us for multiple products, the CRO’s failure to comply with U.S. and foreign regulations could negatively impact each of the trials. If these clinical investigators and CROs do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, we may be required to repeat one or more of our clinical trials and we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Any products we develop in the future likely will require significant product and clinical development activities and ultimately may not be approved by the FDA, and any failure or delays associated with these activities or the FDA’s approval of such products would increase our costs and time to market. We face substantial risks of failure inherent in developing pharmaceutical products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by many different agencies at the federal, state and international levels. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and any foreign regulatory authorities will approve them for commercial use. Product development is generally a long, expensive and uncertain process. Successful development of product formulations depends on many factors, including our ability to select key components, establish a stable formulation, develop a product that demonstrates our intended safety and efficacy profile, and transfer from development stage to commercial-scale operations. Any delays we encounter during our product development activities would in turn adversely affect our ability to commercialize the product under development. Once we have manufactured formulations of our products that we believe will be suitable for clinical testing, we then must complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. These clinical tests must comply with FDA and other applicable regulations. We may encounter delays or rejections based on our inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after showing promising results in earlier trials. The results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to discontinue development of a product. We, or the FDA, may suspend clinical trials at any time if the patients participating in the trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our applications to conduct the clinical trials or in the conduct of our trials. Moreover, not all products in clinical trials will receive timely, or any, regulatory approval. Even if clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support our assumptions or our product claims. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe for humans or effective for their intended uses. Our product development costs will increase and our product revenues will be delayed if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. In addition, such failures could cause us to abandon a product entirely. If we fail to take any current or future product from the development stage to market, we will have incurred significant expenses without the possibility of generating revenues, and our business will be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business will suffer. We are a small company and, as of January 31, 2008, had 337 employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, manufacturing, product development, business development and sales and marketing personnel. We, as well as inVentiv, our contract sales provider, may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, particularly for sales and marketing positions, due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. Our success depends on a number of key senior management personnel, particularly Gerald T. Proehl, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, these 33 Table of Contents agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain their services. In addition, although we have a “key person” insurance policy on Mr. Proehl, we do not have “key person” insurance policies on any of our other employees that would compensate us for the loss of their services. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, replacement could be difficult and may take an extended period of time and could impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately maintain such rights would materially affect our business. We regard the protection of patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights that we own or license as critical to our success and competitive position. Laws and contractual restrictions, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or misappropriation of our technology or deter others from independently developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Patents. Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we have licensed or will license and on patent protection for our own inventions related to the products that we market and intend to market. Our success also depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Our patent position is subject to uncertainties similar to other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. For example, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims, particularly those that concern biotechnology and pharmaceutical inventions. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products, and protection that we have and do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Other drug companies may challenge the scope, validity and enforceability of our patent claims and may be able to develop generic versions of our products if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights. For example, although we believe that we have valid patent protection in the U.S. for our Zegerid products until at least 2016, depending on the outcome of our patent infringement suits against Par, described below, a generic version of Zegerid could be launched prior to the expiration of our patents. It is also possible that other generic drug makers will attempt to introduce generic versions of our Zegerid products prior to the expiration of our patents. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. To date, five U.S. patents have been issued relating to technology we license from the University of Missouri and several U.S. patent applications are pending. In addition to the U.S. patent coverage, several international patents have been issued, including in Australia, Canada, India, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, and South Korea, as well as in countries within the European Patent Organization, and several international patent applications are pending, all of which are subject to the University of Missouri license agreement. The patents related specifically to our Zegerid products are and will be method and/or formulation patents and will not protect the use of the active pharmaceutical ingredients outside of the formulations covered by the patents and patent applications licensed to or owned by us. The issued claims in the international patents vary between the different countries and include claims covering pharmaceutical compositions combining PPIs with buffering agents and the use of these compositions in the manufacture of drug products for the treatment of GI disorders. The initial U.S. patent from the University of Missouri does not have corresponding international or foreign counterpart applications and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain foreign patent rights to protect each of our products in all foreign countries of interest. We consult with the University of Missouri in its pursuit of the patent applications that we have licensed, but the University of Missouri remains primarily responsible for prosecution of the applications. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources that the University of Missouri devotes on our behalf. It may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of patent applications relating to technology we license as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will ever be issued. Issued patents generally require the payment of maintenance or similar fees to continue their validity. We rely on the University of Missouri to do this, subject to our obligation to provide reimbursement, and the University’s failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not maintained. 34 Table of Contents In September 2007, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, issued an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate for U.S. Patent No. 6,699,885, or the ‘885 patent, which formally concluded the pending reexamination proceeding relating to the ‘885 patent, and confirmed the patentability of the ‘885 patent, as amended during the proceeding, over the references cited in the proceeding. The ‘885 patent is one of the five currently issued U.S. patents providing coverage for our Zegerid family of products, which are licensed to us under our license agreement with the University of Missouri. For a more detailed description of this proceeding, see Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. In December 2007, the University of Missouri filed an Application for Reissue of U.S. Patent No. 5,840,737, or the ‘737 patent, with the PTO. The ‘737 patent is one of five issued patents listed in the Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, or the Orange Book, for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension. The ‘737 patent is not one of the three patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid Capsules. It is not feasible to predict the impact that the reissue proceeding may have on the scope and validity of the ‘737 patent claims. If the claims of the ‘737 patent ultimately are narrowed substantially or invalidated by the PTO, the extent of the patent coverage afforded to our Zegerid family of products could be impaired, which could potentially harm our business and operating results. In August 2006, an Indian company filed a pre-grant opposition to a pending Indian patent application that is licensed to us under our license agreement with the University of Missouri. A hearing was conducted in October 2007. If we, in connection with the University of Missouri, do not successfully defend the patent application against the pre-grant opposition, we may not be able to obtain patent coverage for one or more of our Zegerid products in India. Trade Secrets and Proprietary Know-how. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing our products. Although we require our employees, consultants, advisors and current and prospective business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from disclosing or taking our proprietary information and technology, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Further, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. Others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. If our confidential, proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets could be severely compromised. Trademarks. Our trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. We have received U.S. and European Union, or EU, trademark registration for our corporate name, Santarus®. We also have received trademark registration in the U.S., Canada and Japan and have applied for trademark registration in the EU for our brand name, Zegerid®, and have applied for trademark registration for various other names and logos. An opposition against our EU trademark application for our brand name, Zegerid, has recently concluded in our favor. Accordingly, the trademark should proceed to registration in the EU. Any objections we receive from the PTO, foreign trademark authorities or third parties relating to our pending applications could require us to incur significant expense in defending the objections or establishing alternative names. There is no guarantee we will be able to secure any of our pending trademark applications with the PTO or comparable foreign authorities. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks would be lost or impaired. We could also be forced to cease using any of our trademarks that are found to infringe upon or otherwise violate the trademark or service mark rights of another company, and, as a result, we could lose all the goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement or violation. Par’s Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act related to Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension and the related patent infringement litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as it could result in the introduction of generic products prior to the expiration of the patents for Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management time. 35 Table of Contents In September 2007, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,645,988; 6,489,346; and 6,699,885, each of which is listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid Capsules. In October 2007, we filed an amended complaint to reflect the PTO’s issuance of an Ex Parte Reexamination Certificate for U.S. Patent No. 6,699,885. In December 2007, we filed a second lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,645,988; 6,489,346; 6,699,885; and 6,780,882, each of which is listed in the Orange Book, for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension. The University of Missouri, licensor of the patents, is a co-plaintiff in the litigation. The lawsuits are in response to Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, filed by Par with the FDA regarding Par’s intent to market generic versions of our Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension products prior to the July 2016 expiration of the asserted patents. Each complaint seeks a judgment that Par has infringed the asserted patents and that the effective date of approval of Par’s ANDA shall not be earlier than the expiration date of the asserted patents. Par has filed answers in each case, primarily asserting non-infringement, invalidity and/or unenforceability. Par has also filed counterclaims seeking a declaration in its favor on those issues. In addition, Par is seeking a declaration that U.S. Patent No. 5,840,737, or the ‘737 patent, another patent listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, is not infringed, invalid and/or unenforceable. We have moved to dismiss, or in the alternative, stay these claims due to the pending reissue proceeding involving this patent. Discovery is expected to begin in the near future and a trial date has been scheduled in July 2009. Both lawsuits have been consolidated for all purposes. We commenced each of the lawsuits within the applicable 45 day period required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving Par’s ANDAs for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. If the litigation is still ongoing after 30 months, the termination of the stay could result in the introduction of one or more generic products to Zegerid Capsules and/or Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension prior to resolution of the litigation. Although we intend to vigorously defend and enforce our patent rights, we are not able to predict the outcome of the litigation. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Zegerid Capsules and/or Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension being launched before the expiration of the listed patents in July 2016, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to maximize the value of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension and would likely negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. An adverse outcome may also impact the patent protection for the products being commercialized pursuant to our strategic alliances with GSK and Schering-Plough, which in turn may impact the amount of, or our ability to receive, milestone payments and royalties under those agreements. In addition, even if we prevail, the litigation will be costly, time consuming and distracting to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Third parties may choose to file patent infringement claims against us, which litigation would be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could be materially adverse to our business. The products we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. In particular, intellectual property litigation among companies targeting the treatment of upper GI diseases and disorders is particularly common and may increase due to the large market for these products. AstraZeneca plc, as well as other competitors and companies, including aaiPharma, TAP Pharmaceutical Products Inc. and Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd., hold various other patents relating to omeprazole and PPI products generally and could file an infringement suit claiming our current products infringe their patents. Our third-party manufacturers may also receive claims of infringement and could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the U.S. or in the countries in which they are based. While we believe that we would have meritorious defenses to such claims, the outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and defending such litigation would be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to manufacture, market and sell our products, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those 36 Table of Contents rights is willing, or to cease manufacturing and marketing the challenged products, or, if possible, to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers are unsuccessful in defending our rights, we could be liable for royalties on past sales or more significant damages, and we could be required to obtain and pay for licenses if we are to continue to manufacture and sell our products. These licenses may not be available and, if available, could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments. Any patent owner may seek preliminary injunctive relief in connection with an infringement claim, as well as a permanent injunction, and, if successful in the claim, may be entitled to lost profits from infringing sales, attorneys’ fees and interest and other amounts. Any damages could be increased if there is a finding of willful infringement. Even if we and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay and burden on management of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Zegerid products depend on technology licensed from the University of Missouri and any loss of our license rights would harm our business and seriously affect our ability to market our products. Our Zegerid products are based on patented technology and technology for which patent applications are pending that we have exclusively licensed from the University of Missouri. A loss or adverse modification of our technology license from the University of Missouri would materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current Zegerid products and other products based on that licensed technology that we may attempt to develop or commercialize in the future. The University of Missouri may claim that new patents or new patent applications that result from new research performed by the University of Missouri are not part of the licensed technology. The licenses from the University of Missouri expire in each country when the last patent for licensed technology expires in that country and the last patent application for licensed technology in that country is abandoned. In addition, our rights under the University of Missouri license are subject to early termination under specified circumstances, including our material and uncured breach of the license agreement or our bankruptcy or insolvency. Further, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and sell products based on the technology we licensed from the University of Missouri to meet market demand. If we fail to meet these obligations in specified countries, after giving us an opportunity to cure the failure, the University of Missouri can terminate our license or render it nonexclusive with respect to those countries. To date, we believe we have met all of our obligations under the University of Missouri agreement. However, in the event that the University of Missouri is able to terminate the license agreement for one of the reasons specified in the license agreement, we would lose our rights to develop, market and sell our current Zegerid products and we would not be able to develop, market and sell future products based on those licensed technologies. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers or otherwise breached the terms of agreements with former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. In addition, certain of our employees are parties to non-compete, non-solicitation and non-disclosure agreements with their prior employers. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise breached these non-compete and non-solicitation agreements or used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize products, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, and we expect to incur significant additional operating losses and may not achieve profitability. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitability. We have been engaged in developing and commercializing drugs and have consistently 37 Table of Contents generated operating losses since our inception in December 1996. Our commercial activities and continued product development and clinical activities will require significant expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized $79.4 million in net sales of our Zegerid products, and, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $304.0 million. We expect to incur additional operating losses and capital expenditures as we support the continued marketing of our Zegerid products and any other products we commercialize, and continue our product development and clinical research programs. To the extent we need to raise additional funds in connection with the licensing or acquisition of new products or to continue our operations, we may be unable to raise capital when needed. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next 12 months; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our cash resources being consumed earlier than we expect. Although we do not believe that we will need to raise additional funds to finance our current operations over the next 12 months, we may pursue raising additional funds in connection with licensing or acquisition of new products. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through strategic collaboration or licensing agreements, or through equity, debt and/or royalty financing. In May 2005, we filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which was declared effective in June 2005. On August 22, 2005, we sold 7,350,000 shares of our common stock that were registered under the universal shelf registration statement. The universal shelf registration statement may permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell up to an additional approximately $43.8 million of equity or debt securities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such offerings of securities. Factors influencing the availability of additional financing include the progress of our commercial activities, investor perception of our prospects and the general condition of the financial markets, among others. In February 2006, we entered into a CEFF with Kingsbridge, which may entitle us to sell and obligate Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to the lesser of $75.0 million or 8,853,165 shares, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. We filed a resale shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to facilitate Kingsbridge’s public resale of shares of our common stock which it may acquire from us from time to time in connection with our draw downs under the CEFF or upon the exercise of a warrant to purchase 365,000 shares of common stock that we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with the CEFF. The resale shelf registration statement was declared effective in February 2006. In 2006, we completed four draw downs under the CEFF and have issued a total of 5,401,787 shares in exchange for aggregate gross proceeds of $36.5 million. We did not initiate any draw downs under the CEFF during 2007. Accordingly, the remaining commitment of Kingsbridge under the CEFF for the potential purchase of our common stock is equal to the lesser of $38.5 million in cash consideration or 3,451,378 shares (which shares would be priced at a discount ranging from 6% to 10% of the average market price during any future draw down), subject to certain conditions and restrictions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any further draw downs under the CEFF. Factors influencing our ability to complete draw downs include conditions such as a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; our ability to maintain the effectiveness of the shelf registration statement; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. In July 2006, we entered into our loan agreement with Comerica, pursuant to which we may request advances in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $20.0 million. As of March 3, 2008, the date of this report, we have not borrowed any amounts under the loan agreement. Our ability to borrow amounts under the loan agreement depends upon a number of conditions and restrictions, and we cannot be certain that we will satisfy all borrowing conditions at a time when we desire to borrow amounts under the loan agreement. For example, we have made comprehensive representations and warranties to Comerica as our lender, and all of these representations and warranties generally must be true and correct at the time of any proposed borrowing. Furthermore, we are subject to a number of affirmative and negative covenants, each of which must be satisfied at the time of any proposed borrowing. If we have not satisfied these various conditions, or an event of default otherwise has occurred, we may be unable to borrow amounts under the loan agreement, and may be required to repay any amounts previously borrowed. 38 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our existing cash and marketable securities resources will be adequate to sustain our current operations. To the extent we require additional funding, we cannot be certain that such funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us at that time, our ability to continue our current operations or pursue new product opportunities would be significantly limited. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly because our sales prospects are uncertain. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because the commercial success of, and demand for, our Zegerid products, as well as any other products we market are uncertain and therefore our sales prospects are uncertain. The level of our revenues, if any, and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • commercial success of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension and any products which may be commercialized by GSK or Schering-Plough pursuant to our strategic alliances; • the outcome of, or other developments related to, our patent infringement suits against Par involving Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • our ability to generate revenues under our co-promotion agreements with Victory and Fleet; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for any future products we develop; • results of our clinical trials and safety and efficacy of our products; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us, GSK, Schering-Plough or our competitors; • legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. It will continue to be difficult for us to forecast demand for our products with any degree of certainty. In addition, we expect to incur significant operating expenses as we continue to support the marketing of our Zegerid products. Accordingly, we may experience significant, unanticipated quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. The committed equity financing facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge, and may result in dilution to our stockholders. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to the lesser of $75.0 million or 8,853,165 shares, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. In 2006, we completed four draw downs under the CEFF and issued a total of 5,401,787 shares in exchange for aggregate gross proceeds of $36.5 million. We did not initiate any draw downs under the CEFF during 2007. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase additional shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; the continued effectiveness of the shelf registration statement; and the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the 39 Table of Contents CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition and if such condition continues for a period of 10 days from the date Kingsbridge provides us notice of such material and adverse event. Moreover, our ability to fully utilize the CEFF as a source of future financings may be limited by the remaining maximum number of 3,451,378 shares issuable under the CEFF consistent with Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements (which shares would be priced at a discount ranging from 6% to 10% of the average market price during any future draw down). If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. We are entitled in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the shelf registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares thereunder. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the shelf registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our agreement with Kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of the payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares held by Kingsbridge (exclusive of shares that Kingsbridge may hold pursuant to exercise of the Kingsbridge warrant) and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the shelf registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the shelf registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. If we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effective on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. For each draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. Any future indebtedness under our loan agreement with Comerica could adversely affect our financial health. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we may incur a significant amount of indebtedness. Such indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy other debt obligations we may incur in the future; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because our potential indebtedness under the loan agreement with Comerica may bear interest at a variable rate. For a description of the loan agreement, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources. 40 Table of Contents Covenants in our loan agreement with Comerica may limit our ability to operate our business. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we are subject to certain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability: to convey, sell, lease, license, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; to create, incur, assume, guarantee or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; to grant liens; to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; and to make investments. In addition, under the loan agreement we are required to maintain a balance of cash with Comerica in an amount of not less than $4.0 million and to maintain any other cash balances with either Comerica or another financial institution covered by a control agreement for the benefit of Comerica. We are also subject to certain financial covenants with respect to a minimum liquidity ratio and, when the outstanding loan balances exceed $15.0 million, minimum EBITDA requirements. If we default under the loan agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable, which would negatively impact our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. To service any future indebtedness and fund our working capital and capital expenditures, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on any indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our loan agreement with Comerica, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay any indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Rises in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. The interest rates applicable to any amounts we borrow under our loan agreement with Comerica will be indexed, at our election, to either Comerica’s prime rate or the LIBOR rate. If we elect Comerica’s prime rate for all or any portion of our borrowings, the interest rate will be variable. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, if any. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on any debt we incur under the loan agreement, the increased interest expense could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. If we elect the LIBOR rate for all or any portion of our borrowings, such LIBOR rate will remain fixed only for a specified, limited period of time after the date of our election, after which we will be required to repay the borrowed amount, or elect a new interest rate indexed to either Comerica’s prime rate or the LIBOR rate. The new rate may be higher than the earlier interest rate applicable under the loan agreement. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient cash flow from our operating activities or other resources to service our future debt obligations, if any, particularly in an environment of rising interest rates. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of high-grade auction rate securities, corporate debt securities and government agency securities. As of December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included $4.3 million of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities issued by state municipalities. Our auction rate securities are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and an interest rate that is reset in short-term intervals through auctions. The recent conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If there is insufficient demand for the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the interest rates may be reset to predetermined higher rates. Although to date, we have not recorded any realized gains or losses on our investment portfolio or recognized any significant unrealized gains or losses on investments, when auctions for these securities fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful or they are redeemed or mature. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. 41 Table of Contents Our short operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in December 1996 and have only been conducting operations with respect to our Zegerid family of products since January 2001. We commercially launched our first product in October 2004. Our operations to date have involved organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our technology, undertaking product development and clinical trials for our products and commercially launching Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension and Zegerid Capsules. We have relatively limited experience selling and marketing our products, and we have not yet demonstrated an ability to achieve profitability with our products. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had more experience successfully commercializing products. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies for specialty pharmaceutical companies, including policies governing revenue recognition, expenses, accounting for stock options and in-process research and development costs are subject to further review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission. Changes to, or interpretations of, accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, including those contained in this report. In connection with the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, we are required to make estimates and judgments which involve uncertainties, and any significant differences between our estimates and actual results could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In particular, as part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates under different assumptions or conditions could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to sell your shares at an attractive price. The market prices for securities of specialty pharmaceutical companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the trading prices for our common stock ranged from a high of $8.15 to a low of $1.90, and on February 15, 2008, the closing trading price for our common stock was $2.02. In addition, we have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our loan agreement with Comerica prohibits us from paying dividends. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially as a result of one or more of the following factors: • announcements concerning our commercial progress and activities, including sales trends, or concerning our product development programs, results of our clinical trials or status of our regulatory submissions; • developments in our pending patent infringement suits against Par involving Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension; 42 Table of Contents • the publication of prescription trend data concerning our products or competitive products; • regulatory developments and related announcements in the U.S., including announcements by the FDA, and foreign countries; • other disputes or developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and trade secrets, litigation matters, and our ability to patent or otherwise protect our products and technologies; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • changes in, or our failure to meet or exceed, investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly or annual operating results; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by Kingsbridge under the CEFF, our executive officers, directors or institutional investors; • announcements concerning borrowings under the loan agreement, draw downs under the CEFF, takedowns under our existing universal shelf registration statement or other developments relating to the loan agreement, CEFF, universal shelf registration statement or our other financing activities; • our entering into licenses, strategic partnerships and similar arrangements, or the termination of such arrangements; • acquisition of products or businesses by us or our competitors; • announcements made by, or events affecting, our strategic partners, our co-promotion partners, our contract sales force provider, our suppliers or other third parties that provide services to us; • litigation and government inquiries; or • economic and political factors, including wars, terrorism and political unrest. Our stock price could decline and our stockholders may suffer dilution in connection with future issuances of equity or debt securities. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next 12 months; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our cash resources being consumed earlier than we expect. Although we do not believe that we will need to raise additional funds to finance our current operations over the next 12 months, we may pursue raising additional funds in connection with licensing or acquisition of new products. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through strategic collaboration or licensing agreements, or through equity, debt and/or royalty financing. To the extent we conduct substantial future offerings of equity or debt securities, such offerings could cause our stock price to decline. For example, we may issue additional shares of our common stock under our CEFF with Kingsbridge, we may issue securities under our existing universal shelf registration statement, or we may pursue alternative financing arrangements. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and future equity issuances, including future public offerings or future private placements of equity securities and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, will also result in dilution to investors. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of resales of any of these shares of common stock due to an increased number of shares available for sale in the market. 43 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders may depress our stock price. A concentrated number of stockholders hold significant blocks of our outstanding common stock. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Similarly, sales by Kingsbridge of any shares that we may sell to it under the CEFF from time to time or upon the exercise of the warrant to purchase 365,000 shares of common stock that we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with the CEFF, or the expectation that sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Moreover, certain of our executive officers have established programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act from time to time for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock, and other employees and affiliates, including our directors and executive officers, may choose to establish similar plans in the future. If any of our stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. We may become involved in securities or other class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. In addition, over the last year, several class action lawsuits have been filed against pharmaceutical companies alleging that the companies’ sales representatives have been misclassified as exempt employees under the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state laws. These lawsuits generally are in the early stages of litigation, and we cannot be certain as to how the lawsuits will ultimately be resolved. Although we have not been the subject of these types of lawsuits, we may be targeted in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We are exposed to increased costs and risks related to complying with recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations, including costs and risks associated with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Global Market, have resulted in increased costs to us. In particular, we incur additional administrative expense in connection with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls on an annual basis. As part of our compliance with Section 404, we also rely on the continued effectiveness and adequacy of the internal controls at our key service providers. In addition, the new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If we, or the third party service providers on which we rely, fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our corporate governance or internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. 44 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could adversely affect our stock price and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • permitting the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, in November 2004, we adopted a stockholder rights plan, which was subsequently amended in April 2006. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board prior to attempting a takeover by potentially significantly diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 