ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the risks identified elsewhere in this report, the following risk factors apply to our business, results of operations and financial conditions: ECONOMIC RISKS Our business is affected by global economic volatility. Our business and results of operations are significantly impacted by the general world-wide economic conditions. Demand for discretionary purchases including air travel and vacations to Hawaii, remains unpredictable. Deterioration in demand may result in a reduction in our passenger traffic and/or increased competitive pressure on fares in the markets we serve, resulting in a negative impact to our operations and financial condition. We cannot assure that we would be able to offset such revenue reductions by reducing our costs. Our business is highly dependent on the price and availability of fuel. Our results and operations are heavily impacted by the price and availability of jet fuel. Fuel costs represented 34.5%, 31.5%, and 26.5% of Hawaiian's operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Approximately 58% of our fuel is based on Singapore jet fuel prices, 35% is based on U.S. West Coast jet fuel prices and 7% on other jet fuel prices. As of December 31, 2012, Singapore jet fuel prices were $2.98 and U.S West Coast jet fuel prices were $3.06, compared to $3.05 and $2.97, respectively, at December 31, 2011. Based on gallons expected to be consumed in 2013, for every one cent change in the cost per gallon of jet fuel, Hawaiian's annual fuel 12 Table of Contents expense increases or decreases by approximately $2.3 million. The cost and availability of jet fuel remains volatile and are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside of our control. Prices may be affected by many factors including, without limitation, the impact of political instability, crude oil production and refining capacity, unexpected changes in the availability of petroleum products due to disruptions at distribution systems or refineries, unpredicted increases in demand due to weather or the pace of global economic growth, inventory reserve levels of crude oil and other petroleum products, the relative fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and other major currencies and the actions of speculators in commodity markets. Because of the effects of these factors on the price and availability of jet fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Also, due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, there can be no assurance that we will increase our fares or other fees to sufficiently offset increased fuel prices. The Company enters into derivative agreements to protect against fuel price risk to provide an offset against rising fuel costs. These derivative instruments have not been designated as hedges under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815), for hedge accounting treatment. There is no assurance that such agreements will protect us against price volatility during unfavorable market conditions which may also expose us to counterparty credit risk. Also, if fuel prices fall significantly below the levels at the time we enter into our hedging contracts, we may be required to post a significant amount of cash collateral, which could have an impact on the level of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and adversely affect our liquidity. Our business is highly dependent on tourism to, from and amongst Hawaii and our financial results could suffer if there is a downturn in tourism levels. Our principal base of operations is in Hawaii and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of travelers (mostly tourists) to, from and amongst the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaii tourism levels are affected by, among other things, the political and economic climate in Hawaii's main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, promotional spending by competing destinations, the popularity of Hawaii as a tourist destination relative to other vacation destinations, and other global factors, including natural disasters, safety and security. From time to time, various events and industry specific problems such as strikes have had a negative impact on tourism in Hawaii. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes and tsunamis, in Hawaii or other parts of the world, could also have a material adverse effect on Hawaii tourism. In addition, the potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks, wars such as those in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the threat of other negative world events have had, and may in the future again have, a material adverse effect on Hawaii tourism. No assurance can be given that the level of passenger traffic to Hawaii will not decline in the future. A decline in the level of Hawaii passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our business is expanding internationally with approximately 30% of our passenger revenue from our International routes. Fluctuations in foreign currencies can significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. LIQUIDITY RISKS See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information regarding our liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Our financial liquidity could be adversely affected by credit market conditions. Our business requires access to capital markets to finance equipment purchases, including aircraft, and to provide liquidity in seasonal or cyclical periods of weaker revenue generation. In particular, we intend to obtain additional debt or lease financing for our upcoming aircraft deliveries. Additionally, we will face specific funding requirements upon the expiration of indebtedness related to the purchase of three previously leased Boeing 767-300 aircraft at the end of 2013 and with respect to our obligation under a purchase agreement with Airbus to acquire wide-body A330-200 aircraft and A350XWB (Extra Wide Body) -800 aircraft with expected delivery dates through 2020. Global credit market conditions remain unsettled, affecting the availability of financing and increasing the cost of financing that can be acquired. We can offer no assurance that the financing we need will be available when required or that the economic terms on which it is available will not adversely affect our financial condition. If we cannot obtain financing or we cannot obtain financing on commercially reasonably terms, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and include covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations. At December 31, 2012, our total debt was $554.6 million, of which $489.8 million is fixed-rate debt. Our fixed-rate debt primarily consists of facility agreements for our aircraft purchases. Our substantial debt obligations may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt in the future on acceptable terms or at all, which will impact our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general purpose needs. Our substantial debt and related covenants could: •expose us to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other operational purposes; •increase the volatility of the price of our common stock; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt, our ability to borrow additional funds; and •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors and competitors with debt agreements on more favorable terms than us. The terms of certain of our financing agreements restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, prepay indebtedness, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, repurchase stock and, in the case of Hawaiian, pay dividends or make distributions to our parent company. These agreements also require us to meet certain financial covenants. If we breach any of these covenants it could result in a default under these facilities, which could cause our outstanding obligations under these facilities to accelerate and become due and payable immediately, and could also cause us to default under our other debt or lease obligations and lead to an acceleration of the obligations related to such other debt or lease obligations. The existence of such a default could also preclude us from borrowing funds under our credit facilities. Our ability to comply with the provisions of financing agreements can be affected by events beyond our control and a default under any such financing agreements if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse impact on us. In the event our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay these obligations or to refinance our debt obligations, resulting in a material adverse impact on us. 14 Table of Contents We could be required to maintain reserves under our credit card processing agreements which could adversely impact our financial and business operations. Under our bank-issued credit card processing agreements, certain proceeds from advance ticket sales may be held back to serve as collateral to cover any possible chargebacks or other disputed charges that may occur. These holdbacks, which are included in restricted cash in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, totaled $5.0 million at December 31, 2012. In the event of a material adverse change in our business, the holdback could incrementally increase to an amount up to 100% of the applicable credit card air traffic liability, which would also cause an increase in the level of restricted cash. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, or otherwise mitigate the increase in restricted cash, it could adversely affect our liquidity and also cause a covenant violation under other debt or lease obligations and have a material adverse impact on us. Our obligations for funding our defined benefit pension plans are significant and are affected by factors beyond our control. We sponsor three defined benefit pension plans, as well as a separate plan to administer pilots' disability benefits. Two of the pension plans were frozen effective October 1, 1993, and our collective bargaining agreement with our pilots provides that pension benefit accruals for certain pilots were frozen effective January 1, 2008. Nevertheless, our unfunded pension and disability obligation was $193.3 million as of December 31, 2012. We made contributions of $19.4 million and $12.9 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively, and anticipate funding $14.7 million (minimum required contribution) to the defined benefit pension and disability plans during 2013. The timing and amount of funding requirements depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside our control, such as the number and demographic data of qualified retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. These factors, along with the impact of results that can vary significantly from estimates, may significantly impact our funding requirements and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT RISKS We operate in an extremely competitive environment. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins, high fixed costs and significant price competition. We currently compete with other airlines on our Neighbor Island, North America and International routes. The commencement of, or increase in, service on our routes by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. Many of our competitors on our North America and International routes are larger and have greater financial resources and brand recognition than we do. Aggressive marketing tactics or a prolonged fare war initiated by one or more of these competitors could adversely affect our financial resources and our ability to compete in these markets. Since airline markets have few natural barriers to entry, we also face the threat of new entrants in all of our markets, including competition from low-cost carriers (LCC). Allegiant, a LCC, launched flights from the West Coast to Hawaii in 2012 and Southwest Airlines has taken further steps to enable the carrier to provide service to Hawaii in the future, but has yet to formally announce the service. Furthermore, large network carriers have significantly reduced their costs and adjusted their routes to compete with LCCs in their existing markets by diverting resources to long-haul markets such as Hawaii, where LCC competition has been less severe. As a result, network carriers have reduced their costs of operation and increased capacity in the Hawaii market. Additional capacity to Hawaii, whether from network carriers or LCCs, could result in a decrease in our share of the markets in which we operate, a decline in our yields, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Airline bankruptcy restructuring, strategic combinations or industry consolidation could have an impact on our competitive environment. In recent years, many of our competitors have dramatically reduced operating costs through a combination of bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation and vendor and labor negotiations to increase market strength. Several domestic airlines were able to reduce labor costs, restructure debt and lease agreements, and implement other financial improvements through the bankruptcy process. In addition, certain of our competitors have merged to create larger and more-financially sound airlines. Through consolidation, carriers have the opportunity to achieve cost reductions by eliminating redundancy in their networks and operating structures. With reduced costs, these competitors are more capable of operating profitably in an environment of reduced fares and may, as a result, increase service in our primary markets or reduce fares to attract additional customers. Because airline customers are price sensitive, we cannot assure that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of customers at sufficiently high fare levels to generate profitability, or that we will be able to reduce our operating costs sufficiently to remain competitive with these other airlines. The concentration of our business in Hawaii, and between Hawaii and the U.S. mainland, provides little diversification of our revenue. Approximately 70% of our revenue is generated from air transportation between the islands of Hawaii and the U.S. mainland, and within the Hawaiian Islands. Many of our competitors, particularly major network carriers with whom we compete on our North America routes, enjoy greater geographical diversification of their revenue. A reduction in the level of demand for travel within Hawaii, or to Hawaii from the U.S. mainland, or an increase in the level of industry capacity on these routes may reduce the revenue we are able to generate and adversely affect our financial results. As these routes account for a significantly higher proportion of our revenue than they do for many of our competitors, such a reduction would have a relatively greater adverse impact on our financial results. Our business is affected by the competitive advantages held by network carriers in the North America market. The majority of competition on our North America routes are from network carriers such as Alaska, American, Delta, United and US Airways. Network carriers have a number of competitive advantages that may enable them to offer lower fares and attract higher customer traffic levels as compared to us: •Network carriers generate passenger traffic from and throughout the U.S. mainland. In contrast, we lack a comparable direct network to feed passengers to our North America flights and are, therefore, more reliant on passenger demand in the specific cities we serve. We also rely on our code-share partner agreements (jetBlue, Virgin America Airlines, etc.) to provide customers' access to/from North America destinations currently unserved by us. •Most network carriers operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in market of passengers, depending on the economic strength of the hub city and the size of the customer group that frequent the airline. Our Honolulu and Maui hubs do not originate a large proportion of North American travel, nor does it have the population or potential customer franchise of a larger city to provide us with a built-in market. Passengers in the North America market, for the most part, do not originate in Honolulu, but rather on the U.S. mainland, making Honolulu primarily a destination rather than an origin of passenger traffic. Our Neighbor Island market is affected by narrow body competition from regional carriers. Approximately 24% of our revenue is generated from our Neighbor Island routes. Our competitors on these routes include regional carriers which provide service amongst the Hawaiian Islands including service between Oahu, Maui, Hawaii, Molokai, Kauai and Lanai. Although we enjoy a competitive position on the Neighbor Island service, increased competition is possible. For example, Island Air 16 Table of Contents recently announced its intent to increase capacity on travel throughout the Neighbor Island routes with lease commitments for six additional aircraft. We have also recently purchased two turboprop aircraft to expand our Neighbor Island network to areas we currently do not serve and to meet the travel demands of our passengers. However, a decline in our share of the Neighbor Island market due to increased capacity provided by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our International routes are affected by competition from domestic and foreign carriers. Approximately 30% of our revenue is generated from our International routes. Our competitors on these routes include both domestic and foreign carriers. Both domestic and foreign competitors have a number of competitive advantages that may enable them to offer lower fares and attract higher customer traffic levels as compared to us: •Many of our domestic competitors have joined airline alliances, including SkyTeam, Star Alliance and Oneworld, none of which we participate in, which provide customers access to each participating airline's international network, allowing for convenience and connectivity to their destinations. These alliances formed by our domestic competitors have increased in recent years. In some instances our domestic competitors have been granted antitrust exemptions to form joint venture arrangements in certain geographies further deepening their cooperation on certain routes. We currently do not participate in a world-wide airline alliance or any joint ventures, which may negatively impact our market share and operations as capacity provided by our competitors increase. To mitigate this risk, we rely on code-share agreements with partner airlines to provide customers access to international destinations currently unserved by us. •Many of our foreign competitors such as Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways, Qantas, Korean Air, Philippine Airlines, are network carriers that generate passenger traffic throughout International routes that we service. In contrast, we lack a comparable direct network to feed passengers to our International flights, and are therefore, more reliant on passenger demand in the specific destinations that we serve. Most network carriers operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in home base market of passengers. Passengers on our International routes, for the most part, do not originate in Hawaii, but rather internationally, in these foreign markets' home base. We also rely on our code-sharing agreements (All Nippon Airways, Korean Air, Virgin Australia, etc.) and our relationships with travel agencies and wholesale distributors to provide customers' access to/from International destinations currently unserved by us. STRATEGY AND BRAND RISKS Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy and related cost-reduction goals could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes initiatives to increase revenue, decrease costs, expand our existing markets, and initiate service on new routes and markets that we currently do not serve in the U.S. and internationally. It is critical that we achieve our growth strategy in order for our business to attain economies of scale and to sustain or improve our results of operations. If we are unable to utilize and fill increased capacity provided by additional aircraft entering our fleet, hire and retain skilled personnel, secure the required equipment and facilities in a cost-effective manner, or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy into new and existing markets in the U.S. and internationally, and our business and operations could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We continue to strive toward aggressive cost-containment goals which are an important part of our business strategy to offer the best value to passengers through competitive fares while maintaining acceptable profit margins and return on capital. We believe a lower cost structure will better position us to fund our growth strategy and take advantage of market opportunities. If we are unable to adequately contain our non-fuel unit costs, we likely will not be able to achieve our growth plan and our financial results may suffer. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of adverse publicity, including the event of an aircraft accident. Our customer base is broad and our business activities have significant prominence, particularly in the State of Hawaii and the other cities we serve. Consequently, negative publicity resulting from real or perceived shortcomings in our customer service, employee relations, business conduct, or other events affecting our operations could negatively affect the public image of our company and the willingness of customers to purchase services from us, which could affect our revenue and financial results. Additionally, we are exposed to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft accident. Any such accident could involve not only the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss of revenue, but also significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance, and although we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts consistent with the industry, we cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will adequately cover us from all claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses incurred with the accident. In addition, any aircraft accident or incident could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. Our failure to successfully implement our turboprop operations may impact our financial and business operations. In 2012, we purchased and took delivery of two ATR42 turboprop aircraft with service to new Neighbor Island routes previously unserved by us to begin in 2013. We cannot be assured that we will successfully implement our turboprop operations in a timely and cost-efficient manner and comply with all applicable state and operational regulations. New entrants or changes to existing competition on these Neighbor Island routes currently unserved by us could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. FLEET AND FLEET-RELATED RISKS We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts. We are dependent on Boeing and Airbus as our primary supplier of aircraft and aircraft-related items. As a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft and parts which could result in increased parts and maintenance costs in future years. Our agreement to purchase Airbus A330-200 and A350XWB-800 aircraft and our memorandum of understanding to purchase Airbus A321neo aircraft significantly increases our future financial commitments and operating costs and creates implementation risk associated with the transition from our existing Boeing 767-300 fleet. As of December 31, 2012, our firm aircraft orders consisted of thirteen A330-200 aircraft for delivery between 2013 and 2015 and six A350XWB-800 aircraft for delivery beginning in 2017, along with purchase rights for an additional three A330-200 aircraft and six A350XWB-800 aircraft. We have made substantial pre-delivery payments for the purchased aircraft and are required to continue these pre-delivery payments as well as payments for the balance of the purchase price through delivery of each aircraft. These commitments substantially increase our future capital spending requirements and 18 Table of Contents will require us to significantly increase our level of debt in future years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise capital to finance these requirements or that such financing can be obtained on favorable terms, or at all. In January 2013, we entered into a memorandum of understanding for the purchase of 16 Airbus A321neo aircraft scheduled for delivery between 2017 and 2020, along with purchase rights for an additional nine aircraft. When we execute a firm commitment through the execution of a purchase agreement, which we expect will occur in the first quarter of 2013, we expect our future capital spending requirement and level of debt to increase significantly in future years. We also anticipate substantial pre-delivery payments through the delivery date of each aircraft. The Airbus aircraft will replace expiring leased and retiring Boeing 767-300 aircraft in future years. Although we do not expect to incur significant lease return costs, we cannot be assured that such costs will not exceed our expectations and adversely impact our results of operations and liquidity. The addition of the Airbus aircraft to our fleet will require us to incur additional costs related to the acquisition of spare engines and replacement parts, maintenance of the aircraft, training of crews and ground employees, the addition of these aircraft types to our operating certificate and other implementation activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover these costs through the future operation of these aircraft in our fleet or that we will not experience delays in the implementation process which could adversely affect our operations or financial performance. Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of fleet capacity may adversely impact our operations and financial results. The success of our business depends on, among other things, the ability to effectively operate a certain number and type of aircraft. As mentioned above, we have contractual commitments to purchase and integrate Airbus aircraft into our fleet. If for any reason we are unable to secure deliveries of the Airbus aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates and successfully introduce these aircraft into our fleet, then our business, operations and financial performance could be negatively impacted. Our failure to integrate newly purchased Airbus aircraft into our fleet as planned may require us to seek extensions on our existing leased aircraft. Such extensions may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. COMMON STOCK RISKS Our share price is subject to fluctuations and stockholders could have difficulty trading shares. The market price of our stock is influenced by many factors, a number of which are outside of our control, and include the following: •operating results and financial condition; •changes in the competitive environment in which we operate; •fuel price volatility including the availability of fuel; •announcements concerning our competitors including bankruptcy filings, mergers, restructurings or acquisitions by other airlines; •increases or changes in government regulation; •general and industry specific market conditions; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and •sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings. 19 Table of Contents In recent years the stock market has experienced volatile price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions may affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the company's stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level. The issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes could cause dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, we had $86.25 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding. Upon conversion, we will have the right, at our election, to pay or deliver cash, shares of the Company's common stock or a combination thereof. Holders may convert their convertible notes at their option at any time prior to November 15, 2015, if specific conditions are met. Holders may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the convertible notes upon a fundamental change, primarily a change in control or a termination of trading, at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of the existing stockholders. In addition, if we elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, our liquidity could be adversely affected. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND THIRD-PARTY RISKS We are increasingly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate our business. We depend heavily on technology and automated systems to effectively operate our business. These systems include flight operations systems, communications systems, airport systems, reservations systems, management and accounting systems, commercial websites, including www.hawaiianairlines.com, and other systems, all of which must be able to accommodate high traffic volumes, maintain secure information and provide accurate flight information, as well as process critical financial related transactions. Any substantial or repeated failures of these systems could negatively affect our customer service, compromise the security of customer information, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Like other companies, our systems may be vulnerable to disruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, power disruptions, software or equipment failures, terrorist attacks, cybersecurity threats, computer viruses and hackers. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to reduce the adverse effects of certain potential failures or disruptions are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions of our systems. In addition, we will need to continuously make significant investments in technology to periodically upgrade and replace existing systems. If we are unable to make these investments or fail to successfully implement, upgrade or replace our systems, our business could be adversely impacted. If we do not maintain the privacy and security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our online operation at www.hawaiianairlines.com relies on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including credit card information. A compromise of our physical and network security systems through a cybersecurity attack, including those of our business partners, may threaten our customers' personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons, which could 20 Table of Contents adversely affect our reputation, as well as negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and could result in the imposition of penalties or litigation against us. In addition, a cybersecurity breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems which could result in a disruption of our operations. We are highly reliant on third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services for our operations, and termination of our third-party agreements could have a potentially adverse effect on our financial results. We have historically relied on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including aircraft maintenance and parts, code-sharing, reservations, computer services including hosting and software maintenance, accounting, frequent flyer programs, passenger processing, ground facilities, baggage and cargo handling, personnel training and the distribution and sale of airline seats. As part of our cost-reduction efforts, our reliance on outside vendors has increased and may continue to do so in the future. The failure of any of our third-party service providers to adequately perform our service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues, increase expenses, and prevent us from operating our flights and providing other services to our customers. In addition, our business and financial performance could be materially harmed if our customers believe that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. LABOR RELATIONS AND RELATED COSTS RISKS We are dependent on satisfactory labor relations. Labor costs are a significant component of airline expenses and can substantially impact an airline's results of operations. Labor and related benefit costs represented approximately 21% of our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, approximately 87% of our workforce was unionized. We may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of one or more of our labor unions, and cannot assure you that these labor unions will not require additional wages, benefits or other consideration in return for their consent. In addition, we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, mechanical group employees, clerical group employees, flight attendants, and dispatchers. Currently, we are not in negotiations with respect to any of our existing collective bargaining agreements. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees' unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect us. If we are unable to reach an agreement with any unionized work group, we may be subject to future work interruptions and/or stoppages, which may hamper or halt operations. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer. We are dependent on the knowledge and expertise of our key executives, particularly Mark B. Dunkerley, our Chief Executive Officer, who signed an amended and restated employment agreement in November 2012, for employment through January 1, 2017. Our ability to attract and retain such personnel in the airline industry is highly competitive, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our Chief Executive Officer or other key executives or that we can attract other qualified personnel in the future. Any inability to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key executives, or attract and retain additional qualified executives, could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition, as we continue to expand our operations through the acquisition of new aircraft and introduction of service to new markets, it may be challenging to attract qualified personnel including pilots, mechanics, flight attendants and other skilled labor. As we compete with other carriers for qualified personnel we also face the challenge of attracting individuals who embrace our team-oriented, 21 Table of Contents friendly and customer-driven corporate culture. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, who embrace our corporate culture, could have a negative impact on our reputation and overall operations. AIRLINE INDUSTRY, REGULATION AND RELATED COSTS RISKS The airline industry has substantial operating leverage and is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, including delays, cancellations and other conditions, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. The airline industry operates on low gross profit margins consisting of a high percentage of fixed costs. Due to these fixed costs, the expense incurred on each flight does not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, however the revenue generated from a particular flight is directly related to the number of passengers carried and the respective average fares applied. Accordingly, a decrease in the number of passengers carried would cause a corresponding decrease in revenue (if not offset by higher fares), and it may result in a disproportionately greater decrease in profits. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the following or other factors, which are largely outside of our control, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. •continued threat of terrorist attacks and conflicts overseas; •actual or threatened war and political instability; •adverse weather and natural disasters; •changes in consumer preferences, perceptions or spending patterns; •increased costs related to security and safety measures; •outbreak of contagious diseases; and •actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system. Our results from operations may be volatile subject to the conditions identified above. We cannot assure you that our financial resources will be sufficient to absorb the effects of any of these unexpected factors should they arise. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility. Our results of operations will reflect the impact of seasonal volatility primarily due to passenger leisure and holiday travel patterns. As Hawaii is a popular vacation destination, demand from North America, our largest source of visitors, is typically stronger during June, July, August and December and considerably weaker at other times of the year. As we enter new markets, we could be subject to additional seasonal variations. Because of fluctuations in our results from seasonality, operating results for a historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period and operating results for an interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year. Terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry could negatively affect us and the airline industry. Terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry or the fear of such attacks, hostilities or act of war, could adversely affect the airline industry, including us, and could result in a significant decrease in demand for air travel, increased security costs, increased insurance costs covering war-related risks, and increased flight operational loss due to cancellations and delays. Any future terrorist attacks or the implementation of additional security-related fees could have a material adverse 22 Table of Contents impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on the airline industry in general. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, new regulations, and taxes which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements that result in significant costs. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges imposed by domestic and foreign governments have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. For example, the ATSA, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airlines. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. Under Department of Transportation regulations effective January 2012, all taxes and fees imposed by the government must be disclosed in fares charged to customers. Also, in January 2012, the Department of Transportation announced new flight crew rest rules which require mandatory rest periods for airline flight crews, including flight attendants and pilots for both traditional scheduled service and charter operations, to prevent fatigue on flights. This rule is effective as of January 2014; however we have started to implement crew rest pods in our Airbus aircraft that provide long-haul service exceeding the minimum rest requirement rules. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with applicable regulations. We cannot predict the impact that laws or regulations may have on our operations or assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect us. Many aspects of airlines' operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws protecting the environment. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on us include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Act, and the Compensation and Liability Act. Governments globally are increasingly focusing on the environmental impact caused by the consumption of fossil fuels and as a result have proposed or enacted legislation which may increase the cost of providing airline service or restrict its provision. We expect the focus on environmental matters to increase. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the effect on us and our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant. The U.S. Congress is considering climate change legislation and the Environmental Protection Agency issued a rule which regulates larger emitters of greenhouse gases. We cannot predict the impact that future environment regulations may have on our operations or assure you that regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect us. The impact to us and our industry from such actions is likely to be adverse and could be significant, particularly if regulators were to conclude that emissions from commercial aircraft cause significant harm to the upper atmosphere or have a greater impact on climate change than other industries. Our operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-U.S. jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject. The expansion of our operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions has expanded the scope of the laws to which we are subject, both domestically and internationally. In addition, operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than U.S. laws. Laws in 23 Table of Contents some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business. Further, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and the expenses paid in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. Our financial results may be negatively affected by increased airport rent rates and landing fees at the airports within the State of Hawaii as a result of the State's modernization plan. The State of Hawaii has begun to implement a modernization plan encompassing the airports we serve within the State. Our landing fees and airport rent rates have increased to fund the modernization program. Additionally, we expect the costs for our Neighbor Island operations to increase more than the costs related to our North America and International operations due to phased adjustments to the airport's funding mechanism. Therefore, costs related to the modernization program will have a greater impact on our operations as compared to our competitors, whom do not have significant Neighbor Island operations. We can offer no assurance that we will be successful in offsetting these cost increases through other cost reductions or increases in our revenue and, therefore, can offer no assurance that our future financial results will not be negatively affected by them. Our insurance costs are susceptible to significant increases and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We carry types and amounts of insurance customary in the airline industry, including coverage for general liability, passenger liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability and workers' compensation. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain commercial airline insurance with a major group of independent insurers that regularly participate in world aviation insurance markets, including public liability insurance and coverage for losses resulting from the physical destruction or damage to our aircraft. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed or that we will not bear substantial losses from accidents or damage to, or loss of, aircraft or other property due to other factors such as natural disasters. We could incur substantial claims resulting from an accident or damage to, or loss of, aircraft or other property due to other factors such as natural disasters in excess of related insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. After the events of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such coverage as well as for aviation insurance in general. As a result, war-risk insurance in amounts necessary for our operations, and at premiums that are not excessive, is not currently available in the commercial insurance market and we have therefore purchased from the U.S. government third-party war-risk insurance coverage. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate war-risk insurances our business could be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 Table of Contents 