ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the risks identified elsewhere in this report, the following risk factors apply to our business, results of operations and financial conditions: Risks Relating to our Business Our business is adversely affected by increases in fuel prices. Aircraft fuel costs constitute a significant portion of Hawaiian’s operating expenses, and our results are significantly impacted by changes in the cost of fuel. Fuel costs represented 27.3% and 24.6% of Hawaiian’s operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based on gallons expected to be consumed in 2007, for every one cent change in the cost per gallon of jet fuel, Hawaiian’s annual fuel expense increases or decreases by approximately $1.3 million. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by international political and economic circumstances, such as the war and post-war unrest in Iraq, as well as OPEC production curtailments, a disruption of oil imports, other conflicts in the Middle East, increasing demand from China, India and other developing countries, environmental concerns, weather and other unpredictable events. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused widespread disruption to oil production, refinery operations and pipeline capacity along the U.S. Gulf Coast. As a result of these disruptions, the price of jet fuel increased significantly and the availability of jet fuel supplies was diminished. Further increases in jet fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies, whether as a result of natural disasters or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our business is highly dependent on tourism, and our financial results could suffer if there is a downturn in tourism levels. Our principal base of operations is in Hawaii and our revenue is linked primarily to the number of travelers (mostly tourists) to, from and among the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaii tourism levels are affected by, among other things, the political and economic climate in Hawaii’s main tourism markets, the availability of hotel accommodations, promotional spending by competing destinations, the popularity of Hawaii as a tourist destination relative to other vacation options, and other global factors, including natural disasters, safety and security. From time to time, various events and industry specific problems such as strikes have had a negative impact on tourism in Hawaii. In addition, the potential or actual occurrence of terrorist attacks, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the threat of other negative world events has had and may in 12 the future again have a material adverse effect on Hawaii tourism. No assurance can be given that the level of passenger traffic to Hawaii will not decline in the future. A decline in the level of Hawaii passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal and cyclical volatility. Our profitability and liquidity are sensitive to seasonal volatility primarily due to leisure and holiday travel patterns. Hawaii is a popular vacation destination. Demand is typically stronger during June, July, August and December and considerably weaker at other times of the year. During weaker demand periods, we may utilize discounted fare pricing strategies to increase our traffic volume. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but are also impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal. These factors include the extent and nature of fare changes and competition from other airlines, changing levels of operations, national and international events, fuel prices and general economic conditions, including inflation. Because a substantial portion of both personal and business airline travel is discretionary, the industry tends to experience adverse financial results in general economic downturns. Additionally, airlines generally require substantial liquidity to sustain continued operations under most conditions. The concentration of our business in Hawaii, and between Hawaii and the western United States, provides little diversification of our revenue. Most of our revenue is generated from air transportation between the islands of Hawaii and the western United States, or within the Hawaiian islands. Many of our competitors, particularly major network carriers with whom we compete in the transpacific business, enjoy greater geographical diversification of their revenue. A reduction in the level of demand for travel within Hawaii, or to Hawaii from the western United States or the U.S. mainland in general, or an increase in the level of industry capacity on these routes may reduce the revenue we are able to generate and adversely affect our financial results. As these routes account for a significantly higher proportion of our revenue than they do for many of our competitors, such a reduction would have a relatively more adverse impact on our financial results. Our business is increasingly impacted by competition from low cost carriers. Until recent years, Hawaiian has been largely insulated from direct competition from low cost carriers or LCCs. Most LCCs have lacked the fleet and infrastructure necessary to provide long-haul trans-oceanic service. The Hawaii market has, however, in recent years, seen growing LCC competition from carriers such as ATA and US Airways. ATA offers service to Hawaii from a number of West Coast markets and enjoys a marketing and code sharing relationship with Southwest Airlines providing access to Southwest’s customer base and website. US Airways has positioned its business as a low cost carrier following its emergence from bankruptcy and combination with America West Airlines and commenced service to Hawaii at the end of 2005. Our interisland business also faces LCC competition following the entrance of go! (an operating division of Mesa Airlines) and the emergence of Aloha Airlines from bankruptcy in early 2006. We also face the threat of more LCC competition in the future. Furthermore, a more fundamental and immediate consequence for us of the proliferation of LCCs is the response from full service network carriers, which are meeting the competition from LCCs by significantly reducing costs and adjusting their route networks to divert resources to long-haul markets such as Hawaii, where LCC competition is less severe. The result is that the network carriers have at the same time reduced their costs of operation and increased capacity in the Hawaii market. Additional capacity to Hawaii, whether from network carriers or LCCs, could result in a decrease in our share of the markets in which we operate, a decline in our yields, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Our competitors have reduced their operating costs, enabling them to compete successfully at lower fare levels. In recent years, many of our competitors have dramatically reduced operating costs through a combination of operational restructuring, business simplification and vendor and labor negotiations. Several airlines, including United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, US Airways, ATA and Aloha Airlines filed for bankruptcy protection since 2001, resulting in reduced labor costs, restructuring of debt and lease agreements and other financial improvements. Other carriers, including American Airlines and Continental Airlines, have also reduced operating costs outside of the bankruptcy process. With reduced costs, these competitors are more capable of operating profitably in an environment of reduced fares and may, as a result, increase service in our primary markets or reduce fares to attract additional customers. Because airline customers are price sensitive, we cannot assure that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of customers at sufficiently high fares levels to generate profitability, or that we will be able to reduce our operating costs sufficiently to remain competitive with these airlines. Our business is impacted by the competitive advantages held by network carriers in the transpacific market. In the transpacific market, most of our competition comes from network carriers such as United Airlines, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines and US Airways. Network carriers have a number of competitive advantages relative to Hawaiian that historically have enabled them to obtain higher fares or attract higher customer traffic levels than Hawaiian: · Network carriers generate passenger traffic from throughout the U.S. mainland. In contrast, Hawaiian lacks a comparable network to feed passengers to its transpacific flights and is therefore more reliant on passenger demand in the cities we serve. · Most network carriers operate from hubs, which can provide a built-in market of passengers, depending on the economic strength of the hub city and the size of the customer group that frequent the airline. For example, United flows sufficient passenger traffic throughout the U.S. mainland to schedule approximately 12 flights a day, depending on seasonality, between San Francisco and the Hawaiian islands, which gives San Francisco residents wishing to travel to Hawaii a large number of United non-stop flight choices to Oahu, Maui, Kauai and the Big Island, while Hawaiian, without feed traffic, can offer only one flight per day. In contrast, Honolulu, the hub of our operations, does not originate much transpacific travel, nor does it have the city strength or potential customer franchise of a city such as Chicago or Dallas necessary to provide Hawaiian with a built-in market. Tickets to Hawaii are for the most part not sold in Honolulu, but rather on the mainland, making Honolulu primarily a destination rather than origin of passenger traffic. Capacity in the interisland market has increased dramatically, including the entry of a new competitor in 2006, and price discounts have escalated. Since June 2006, capacity on our primary interisland routes (measured in the number of daily seats offered for sale) has increased dramatically. Mesa Airlines, through its operating division go!, entered the interisland business in June, with a schedule of approximately 60 daily flights offered as of February 2007. Also in March, Hawaiian expanded its schedule of interisland flights to remain competitive with go!’s schedule, particularly in the early morning and evenings. Aloha Airlines also expanded its schedule shortly thereafter. These capacity increases have been accompanied by significant downward pressure on interisland fare prices, including those charged by Hawaiian. In addition, in July 2007, the Superferry is expected to commence operations in Hawaii with daily interisland services between Oahu and Maui and Oahu and Kauai which will provide for transportation of passengers as well as vehicles. The combination of increased capacity (seat availability) and price promotions as go! seeks to establish a customer following has resulted in a significant reduction in the revenue generated on our interisland 14 routes since June 2006. We can offer no assurances that the competitive situation will change, or that we will be able to achieve cost reductions sufficient to offset the decline in revenue. Demand for interisland service is declining, and is expected to decline for the foreseeable future. The demand for interisland service has been steadily declining, as other airlines have increased direct service from the mainland to Oahu’s neighbor islands, obviating the need for interisland transfers, and as the infrastructure, particularly the availability of goods and services, in the neighbor islands improves. The total size of the interisland market is, therefore, expected to continue to shrink for the foreseeable future. A decline in the level of interisland passenger traffic could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our share price could be subject to extreme price fluctuations, and stockholders could have difficulty trading shares. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations could be in response to operating results, changes in the competitive activity in the markets we serve, changes in jet fuel prices, additional bankruptcy filings among airlines, increased government regulation and general market conditions. Additionally, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the company’s stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level. We are increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business. We depend heavily on computer systems and technology, such as flight operations systems, communications systems, airport systems and reservations systems to operate our business. Any substantial or repeated failures of our computer or communications systems could impact our customer service, compromise the security of customer information, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenue, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Like all companies, our computer and communication systems may be vulnerable to disruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, power or equipment failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses and hackers. Although we have implemented various technology security initiatives and taken measures in an effort to reduce the adverse effects of certain potential failures or disruption, there can be no assurance that these measures are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions of our systems. We are subject to various risks as a result of our fleet concentration in Boeing 717s. Our interisland fleet consists entirely of Boeing 717 aircraft. In January 2005, Boeing Commercial Airplanes (Boeing) announced it would discontinue the production of that aircraft model in 2006. As a result, the availability of parts and maintenance support for Boeing 717 aircraft may become limited in future years. Additionally, we may experience increased costs in later years associated with parts acquisition for and/or maintenance support of this aircraft. Other carriers operating with a more diversified fleet may be better able to withstand such an event, if such an event occurred in the future. 15 We may experience delays in introducing our recently acquired Boeing 767-300 aircraft into revenue service. We purchased four used Boeing 767-300 aircraft with the intention of introducing all four aircraft into service during 2006. However, due to unanticipated delays in obtaining FAA approval on our interior modifications, one aircraft was placed into service during September 2006 and one each in January and March 2007. We expect to have the remaining Boeing 767-300 aircraft available for revenue service by the end of the second quarter of 2007. However, due to possible further delays in the timely completion of the overhauls and modifications of the remaining aircraft, there are no assurances that the aircraft will be available by its revised scheduled induction. As a result of the delays in operating these aircraft, we have incurred costs related to accommodating displaced passengers on other airlines and at costs exceeding the fares we collect for such canceled flights. Additionally, until the aircraft are in revenue service, there will be no direct incremental revenue to fund the fixed costs associated with our ownership and operation of these aircraft, including the wages and benefits for the additional flight crews and ground personnel we hired to accommodate the growth in our Boeing 767 aircraft fleet and the debt-service costs related to the increased debt we incurred in the first quarter of 2006 to help fund our acquisition of these aircraft. We have sold and are selling tickets for future travel on certain of our transpacific flights that are scheduled to be operated by the two remaining aircraft. Further delays to the availability of the aircraft and resultant cancellation of the flights they are scheduled to operate may result in further costs and lost incremental revenue. We are highly reliant on third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services for our operations, and termination of our third-party agreements could have a potentially adverse effect on our financial results. We have agreements with Alaska Airlines, US Airways, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Northwest Airlines, Island Air, and certain other contractors, to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations. These facilities and services include aircraft maintenance, code sharing, reservations, computer services, frequent flyer programs, passenger processing, ground facilities, baggage and cargo handling and personnel training. Our reliance on these third parties to continue to provide these important aspects of our business impacts our ability to conduct our business effectively. · Maintenance agreements. We have maintenance agreements with Delta Air Lines, Goodrich Aviation Technical Services, the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation, Rolls Royce, Honeywell and others to provide maintenance services for our aircraft, engines, parts and equipment. If one or more of our maintenance providers terminate their respective agreements, we would have to seek alternative sources of maintenance service or undertake the maintenance of these aircraft or components ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so on a basis that is as cost-effective as our current maintenance arrangements. · Code sharing agreements. We have code sharing agreements with Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, American Eagle, Continental Airlines, Harmony Airways, Island Air, Korean Air, Northwest Airlines and US Airways. We also participate in the frequent flyer programs of Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, American Eagle, Continental Airlines, Island Air, Northwest Airlines, US Airways, Virgin Atlantic Airways and Virgin Blue. Although these agreements increase our ability to be more competitive, they also increase our reliance on third parties. · Fuel agreements. We have entered into a jet fuel sale and purchase contract to provide us with a substantial amount of jet fuel, which we anticipate will be sufficient to meet all of our jet fuel needs for flights originating in Honolulu during 2007. If the fuel provider terminates its agreement with us, we would have to seek an alternative source of jet fuel. We cannot assure you that we would be able to do so on a basis that is as cost-effective as our current arrangement. We have agreements with vendors at all airports we serve to provide us with fuel. Should any of these vendors cease to provide service to Hawaiian for whatever reason, our operations could be adversely affected. 16 · Travel agency and wholesale agreements. In 2006, passenger ticket sales from travel agencies and wholesalers constituted approximately 24% of our total operating revenue. Travel agents and wholesalers generally have a choice between one or more airlines when booking a customer’s flight. Accordingly, any effort by travel agencies or wholesalers to favor another airline or to disfavor us could adversely affect our revenue. Although we intend to maintain favorable relations with travel agencies and wholesalers, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do business with us. The loss of any one or several travel agencies and or wholesalers may have a material adverse effect on operations. We are subject to various risks associated with our labor outsourcing initiatives. In July 2006, we reached an agreement with one of our largest labor unions allowing the outsourcing of various clerical and back-office functions including our reservation call center and certain accounting and information technology positions. In exchange for our ability to consider outsourcing as a strategy to reduce future labor and benefit costs, we provided furlough protection to the affected employees and allowed the transfer to other positions at same or higher pay scales. Our future agreements with third-party providers, including overseas third-party providers, may materially fail to meet our service level and performance standards and commitments to our customers. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues and increase our expenses, or prevent us from operating our flights profitably and providing other services to our customers. In addition, our business and financial performance could be materially harmed if our customers believe that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. In addition, to the extent we are unable to maintain the outsourcing or subcontracting of certain services for our business, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to return these services in-house. We are dependent on satisfactory labor relations. Labor costs are a significant component of airline expenses and can substantially impact an airline’s results. Labor and related benefit costs represented approximately 25.8% and 27.7% of Hawaiian’s operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We may experience pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees in the future. We may make strategic and operational decisions that require the consent of one or more of our labor unions. We cannot assure you that these labor unions will not require additional wages or benefits in return for their consent. In addition, we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, mechanical group employees, clerical group employees, flight attendants, dispatchers and network engineers which are amendable in less than two years. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees’ unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs or otherwise adversely affect us. If we are unable to reach an agreement with any unionized work group, we may be subject to future work interruptions and/or stoppages, which may hamper or halt operations. Our operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain key executives, particularly Mark B. Dunkerley, our Chief Executive Officer, with whom we entered into a three-year employment agreement on August 18, 2005. Competition for such personnel in the airline industry is highly competitive, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our Chief Executive Officer or other key executives or that we can attract other qualified personnel in the future. Any inability to retain our Chief Executive Officer 17 and other key executives, or attract and retain additional qualified executives, could have a negative impact on our operations. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, we had substantial indebtedness, including $126.0 million of debt related to the acquisition in December 2006 of three previously leased Boeing 767-300ER aircraft, $55.0 million of the Term A Credit Facility scheduled to mature in December 2010, a $62.5 million Term B Credit Facility scheduled to mature in March 2011 and $23.0 million of notes payable to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that mature in June 2011. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The requirement to service our debt makes us more vulnerable to general adverse economic conditions, requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes, limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, and places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any other competitor that has less debt than we do. Certain of our financing agreements and our credit card processing agreement include financial covenants that impose substantial restrictions on our financial and business operations. The terms of our Term A and Term B Credit Facilities with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. and Canyon Capital Advisors, LLC, respectively, restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other payments on investments, consummate asset sales or similar transactions, create liens, merge or consolidate with any other person, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. The terms of the agreements contain covenants that require us to meet certain financial tests to avoid a default that might lead to early termination of the facilities. Moreover, these agreements contain covenants that require us to meet certain financial tests. If we were not able to comply with these covenants, our outstanding obligations under these facilities could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately. Under our bank-issued credit card processing agreement, our credit card processor holds back proceeds from advance ticket sales to serve as collateral to cover any possible chargebacks or other disputed charges that may occur. These holdbacks, which are included in restricted cash in our consolidated balance sheet, totaled $53.7 million at December 31, 2006. Funds are subsequently made available to us as air travel is provided. The agreement also contains financial covenants which require, among other things, that we maintain a minimum amount of unrestricted cash and maintain certain levels of debt service coverage and operating income. Although we are currently in compliance with all of these covenants, failure to maintain compliance would result in our credit card processor being able to hold back additional proceeds from advance ticket sales, which would adversely affect our liquidity. Depending on our unrestricted cash balance at the time, the holdback of a significant amount of cash collateral could cause our unrestricted cash and short term investments balance to fall below the minimum balance requirement under our Term A Credit Facility, resulting in a default under that facility. Our business has substantial financial and operating leverage. The airline industry operates on low gross profit margins and revenue that varies substantially in relation to fixed operating costs. Due to high fixed costs, the expenses of each flight do not vary proportionately with the number of passengers carried, but the revenue generated from a particular flight is directly related to the number of passengers carried. Accordingly, while a decrease in the number of passengers carried would cause a corresponding decrease in revenue (if not offset by higher fares), it may 18 result in a disproportionately greater decrease in profits. An increase in the number of passengers carried would have the opposite effect. Our obligations for funding our defined benefit pension plans are significant and are affected by factors beyond our control. Hawaiian sponsors three defined benefit pension plans. Although two of the plans were frozen effective October 1, 1993 and Hawaiian’s collective bargaining agreement with our pilots provides that benefit accruals for certain pilots will be frozen effective January 1, 2008, our unfunded pension obligation was $74.0 million as of December 31, 2006. Hawaiian made scheduled contributions of $10.9 million and $23.3 million for 2006 and 2005, respectively, and anticipates contributing $8.7 million to the defined benefit pension plans during 2007. The timing and amount of funding requirements depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside our control, such as asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Risks Relating to the Airline Industry The continued threat of terrorist attacks may adversely impact our business. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the airline industry has experienced profound changes, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which have resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats such as the August 2006 terrorist plot targeting multiple U.S. airlines), could further adversely impact us and the airline industry. Increased regulation governing carry-on baggage and passenger travel may further increase passenger inconvenience and reduce the demand for air travel. In addition, other world events and developments may further decrease demand for air travel, and could result in further increased costs for us and the airline industry. We are currently unable to estimate the impact of any future terrorist attacks. However, any future terrorist attacks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The airline industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The airline industry is highly competitive, and many of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. The commencement of, or increase in, service on our routes by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. In the past, competing airlines have reduced fares and increased capacity beyond market demand on routes served by us in order to maintain or generate additional revenue. Further fare reductions and capacity increases by competing airlines could force us to reduce fares or adjust our capacity to levels that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Many of our competitors have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Either aggressive marketing tactics or a prolonged fare war initiated by one or more of these competitors could adversely impact our financial resources and affect our ability to compete in these markets. Vigorous price competition exists in the airline industry, with competitors frequently offering discounted fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during weaker demand periods, generate cash flow or increase relative market share in selected markets. Airline profit levels are highly sensitive to changes in fuel costs, fare levels and passenger demand. Passenger demand and fare levels are influenced by, among other things, the state of the global economy, domestic and international events, airline capacity and pricing actions taken by carriers. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, turbulent international events (including the war and post-war unrest in Iraq), high fuel prices and extensive price discounting by 19 carriers have resulted in significant losses for the airline industry. The introduction of broadly available, deeply discounted fares by a U.S. airline could result in lower yields for the entire industry and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory requirements that result in significant costs. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. For example, the ATSA, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airlines. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. Many aspects of airlines’ operations also are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the effect on us and our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant. In addition, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not available. We cannot provide assurance that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not adversely affect us. Our operations may be adversely impacted by increased security measures mandated by regulatory authorities. Because of significantly higher security and other costs incurred by airports since September 11, 2001, many airports significantly increased their rates and charges to air carriers, including us, and may do so again in the future. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, the DHS and the TSA and other agencies within the DHS have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. The DHS has announced greater use of passenger data for evaluating security measures to be taken with respect to individual passengers, expanded use of federal air marshals on flights (thus displacing revenue passengers), investigating a requirement to install aircraft security systems (such as active devices on commercial aircraft as countermeasures against portable surface to air missiles) and expanded cargo and baggage screening. The TSA has imposed additional measures affecting the contents of baggage that may be carried on an aircraft in response to the discovery in August 2006 of a terrorist plot targeting several U.S. airlines. The TSA and other security regulators may impose other measures as necessary to respond to future threats. A large part of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, and we believe that these and other security measures have the effect of increasing the inconvenience of air transportation and thus decreasing traffic. Security measures imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments subsequent to September 11, 2001 have increased our costs, and additional measures taken in the future may result in similar adverse effects. We cannot provide assurance that additional security requirements or security-related fees enacted in the future will not adversely affect us. 20 Our insurance costs have increased substantially in recent years and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We carry types and amounts of insurance customary in the airline industry, including coverage for general liability, passenger liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability and workers’ compensation. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance on each of our aircraft. We currently maintain commercial airline insurance with a major group of independent insurers that regularly participate in world aviation insurance markets including public liability insurance and coverage for losses resulting from the physical destruction or damage to our aircraft. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of such coverage will not be changed, or that we will not bear substantial losses from accidents. We could incur substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. After the events of September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, they significantly increased the premiums for such coverage as well as for aviation insurance in general. As a result, war-risk insurance in amounts necessary for our operations, and at premiums that are not excessive, is not currently available in the commercial insurance market and we have therefore purchased from the U.S. government third-party war-risk insurance coverage. This coverage has been extended by the FAA under the Homeland Security Act to September 30, 2007, after which time it is anticipated that the federal policy will be extended unless insurance for war-risk coverage in necessary amounts is available from independent insurers or a group insurance program is instituted by the U.S. carriers and the DOT. However, there can be no assurance that the federal policy will be renewed or an alternative policy can be obtained in the commercial market at a reasonable cost. Although our overall hull and liability insurance costs have been reduced since the post-2001 increases, there can be no assurances that these reductions would be maintained in the event of future increases in the risk, or perceived risk, of air travel by the insurance industry, or a reduction of capital flows into the aviation insurance market. We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity in the event of an aircraft accident. We are exposed to potential losses that may be incurred in the event of an aircraft accident. Any such accident could involve not only the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss of revenue, but also significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. In addition, any aircraft accident or incident could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. We are at risk of losses in the event of an outbreak of diseases. Public health threats, such as avian influenza (the Bird Flu), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world, could adversely impact our operations and the worldwide demand for air travel. In 2003, there was an outbreak of SARS, which primarily had an adverse impact on our Pacific operations. If there were another outbreak of a disease (such as SARS or the Bird Flu) that adversely affects travel behavior, it could have a material adverse impact on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 21 