Item 1A Risk Factors General Business Risks 24 Risks Relating to the Market for Our Securities 31 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 32 Item 2 Description of Property 33 Raft River, Idaho 34 Raft River Energy Unit I 36 Neal Hot Springs, Oregon 39 San Emidio, Nevada 41 Gerlach, Nevada 43 Granite Creek, Nevada 44 Republic of Guatemala 45 Boise Administration Office, Idaho 45 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 46 Item 4 Removed and Reserved 46 U.S. Geothermal Inc. and Subsidiaries Form 10-K INDEX For the Year Ended March 31, 2010 Page PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 47 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 49 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 50 Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations 53 Results of Operations 56 Liquidity and Capital Resources 62 Potential Acquisitions 63 Critical Accounting Policies 63 Contractual Obligations 65 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 66 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 66 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting And Financial Disclosure 67 Item 9A Controls & Procedures 67 Item 9B Other Information 68 PART III Item 10 Other Information 69 Item 11 Executive Compensation 69 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 71 PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution readers that any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statement. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. You can find many of these statements by looking for words like “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intend,” “estimates,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “could,” “plan,” “predict,” “potential,” or similar expressions in this document or in documents incorporated by reference in this document. Examples of these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our business and growth strategies; our future results of operations; anticipated trends in our business; the capacity and utilization of our geothermal resources; our ability to successfully and economically explore for and develop geothermal resources; our exploration and development prospects, projects and programs, including construction of new projects and expansion of existing projects; availability and costs of drilling rigs and field services; our liquidity and ability to finance our exploration and development activities; our working capital requirements and availability; our illustrative plant economics; market conditions in the geothermal energy industry; and the impact of environmental and other governmental regulation. These forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may differ materially from current expectations and projections. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the failure to obtain sufficient capital resources to fund our operations; unsuccessful construction and expansion activities, including delays or cancellations; incorrect estimates of required capital expenditures; -5- increases in the cost of drilling and completion, or other costs of production and operations; the enforceability of the power purchase agreements for our projects; impact of environmental and other governmental regulation, including delays in obtaining permits; hazardous and risky operations relating to the development of geothermal energy; our ability to successfully identify and integrate acquisitions; our dependence on key personnel; the potential for claims arising from geothermal plant operations; general competitive conditions within the geothermal energy industry; and financial market conditions. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable U.S. securities law. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect to those or other forward-looking statements. The U.S. dollar is the Company’s functional currency; however some transactions involved the Canadian dollar. All references to “dollars” or “$” are to United States dollars and all references to $ CDN are to Canadian dollars. U.S. Geothermal Inc. (the “Company,” “HTM” or “we” or “us” or words of similar import) is in the renewable “green” energy business. Through its subsidiary, U.S. Geothermal Inc., an Idaho corporation (“Geo-Idaho,” although our references to the Company include and refer to our operations through Geo-Idaho), we are engaged in the acquisition, development and utilization of geothermal resources in the Western Region of the United States of America. Geothermal energy is the natural heat energy stored within the earth’s crust. In some areas of the earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result from a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. Development of Business History Geo-Idaho was formed as an Idaho corporation in February 2002 to conduct geothermal resource development. On March 5, 2002 Geo-Idaho entered into a letter agreement with the previous owner, pursuant to which Geo-Idaho agreed to acquire all of the real property, personal property and permits that comprised the owner’s interest in the Raft River project located in southeastern Idaho. -6- The Company and Geo-Idaho entered into a merger agreement on February 28, 2002, which was amended and restated on November 30, 2003, and closed on December 19, 2003. In accordance with the merger agreement, HTM acquired Geo-Idaho through the merger of Geo-Idaho with a subsidiary, EverGreen Power Inc., an Idaho corporation formed for that purpose. Geo-Idaho is the surviving corporation and the subsidiary through which HTM conducts operations. As part of this acquisition, we changed our name to U.S. Geothermal Inc. Because the former Geo-Idaho shareholders became the majority holders of HTM, the transaction is treated as a “reverse takeover” for accounting purposes. We currently operate two power plants that include, Raft River Unit I in Idaho (through our joint venture with Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs) and a plant located in the San Emidio Desert in Nevada. We also have several other properties under development or exploration. Raft River Unit I (“RREI”) commenced commercial operations on January 3, 2008. Raft River Unit I is currently selling an annual average of 8.8 megawatts (“MWs”) of power to Idaho Power Company under a net 13 MW power purchase agreement (“PPA”) which expires in 2032. Management is currently evaluating alternatives to bring the RREI plant operations to its nameplate capacity of 13 MW. In May 2008, we acquired the geothermal assets, including a 3.6 net MW nameplate generating capacity power plant, from Empire Geothermal Power LLC and Michael B. Stewart, located in Washoe County, Nevada for approximately $16.6 million which includes the Granite Creek geothermal and water rights. The plant currently generates an approximate average net output of 2.5 MWs, which is sold to Sierra Pacific Power Corporation. With the recent downturn in the economy we have been focusing our efforts on maximizing the available leverage to our existing equity investments and pursuing a development plan with lower risks by avoidance of exploration drilling of production wells. As a result we are planning a 35 MW development in two phases with the first phase a “repower” facility at San Emidio which will use the existing geothermal fluid feeding the existing plant to feed a new plant. The plant size is estimated to be 8.2 net MWs and currently is expected to be on line in late 2011. The second phase is anticipated to add 26 MW of power supplied from new production wells to be drilled but requires a significant transmission line upgrade. The second phase is expected to be on line late 2012. On September 5, 2006, the Company announced the acquisition of property for a geothermal project at Neal Hot Springs, Oregon located in eastern Oregon near the Idaho boarder. The property is 8.5 square miles of geothermal energy and surface water rights. On May 5, 2008, the Company announced that drilling had begun on the first full size production well (“NHS-1”) which was completed on May 23rd. In February 2009, the Company submitted an application for the project to the U.S. Department of Energy’s (“DOE”) Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and Advanced Transmission and Distribution Solicitation loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. On May 26, 2009, the Company announced that it had been selected by DOE to enter into due diligence review on a project loan. Upon meeting requirements, the loan is expected to provide up to 75% of the total estimated construction costs. Construction on the first drill pad was completed in August 2009. In September 2009, the Company began drilling production well number 5 (“NHS-5”), which was substantially completed on October 15, 2009. Also, in September 2009, the Company began a temperature gradient well program to expand the knowledge of the entire geothermal resource. On December 14, the Company announced that it’s wholly owned subsidiary USG Oregon LLC has signed a 25-year power purchase agreement with Idaho Power Company that provides for the sale of up to 25 MWs. The PPA was approved by the Idaho PUC in May of 2010. -7- Plan of Operations Our management examines different factors when assessing potential acquisitions or projects at different stages of development, such as the internal rate of return of the investment, technical and geological matters and other relevant business considerations. We evaluate our operating projects based on revenues and expenses, and our projects under development, based on costs attributable to each project. We have exploration and development properties located in: - Raft River, Idaho; - Neal Hot Springs, Oregon; - San Emidio, Nevada; - Gerlach, Nevada; - Granite Creak, Nevada; and, - Republic of Guatemala. Our business strategy is to identify, evaluate, acquire, develop and operate geothermal assets and resources economically, safely and efficiently. We intend to execute this strategy in several steps outlined below: Leverage Management Team Capabilities and Experience – Our strategy is focused on the identification and acquisition of resources that can be developed in a cost-effective manner to produce attractive returns. In particular, we seek to acquire projects that have already undergone geothermal resource discovery. In addition, we intend to operate and manage construction of the projects, while using internal personnel and third-party contractors to efficiently and cost-effectively develop those resources. We believe that we have the strategic personnel in place to determine which resources provide the greatest opportunity for efficient development and operation. We have developed relationships and employed personnel that will allow us to develop and utilize geothermal resources as efficiently as possible. Develop Our Pipeline of Quality Projects – Our project pipeline currently consists of several projects that we believe are aligned with our growth strategy. These projects have consulting reports from various industry experts supporting our belief in those projects’ potential, and we have started PPA negotiations for power off-take with counterparties for some of these growth opportunities. If realized, our identified project pipeline will greatly expand our renewable power generation capacity. Utilize Production Tax Credits, Investment Tax Credits and Other Incentives – Although geothermal power production can be cost competitive with fossil fuel power generating facilities without government subsidies in some cases, production tax credits (“PTC”) and Investment Tax Credits (“ITC”) available to geothermal power producers enhance the project economics and attract capital investment. For the Raft River Unit I project, we partnered with Goldman Sachs in order to fully utilize production tax credits available to the joint venture. Our strategy going forward is to structure project ownership to be the primary beneficiary of project economics. Recent legislation enacted as part of the stimulus funding has provided an election to take 30% ITC in lieu of the PTC for certain qualified investments being initiated before the end of 2010 and being placed in service before the end of 2013. This ITC election may be available to us at our San Emidio and Neal Hot Springs projects. -8- Pursue Acquisition Strategy – The geothermal market, particularly in the United States, is fragmented and characterized by a few large players and a number of smaller ones. Geothermal exploration and development is costly, technically challenging and requires long lead times before a project will produce revenue. We believe that geothermal technical and managerial talent is limited in the industry and that access to capital to develop projects will not be equally available to all participants. As a result, we believe that there will be opportunities in the future to pursue acquisitions of geothermal projects and/or geothermal development companies with attractive project pipelines. Evaluate Other Potential Revenue Streams from Geothermal Resources – In addition to electricity generation, we will evaluate additional applications for our geothermal resources including industrial, agriculture, and aquaculture purposes. These uses generally constitute lower temperature applications where, after driving a turbine generator, residual hot water can be cycled for secondary processes before being returned to the geothermal reservoir by injection wells, which can provide incremental revenue streams. We will evaluate the optimal use for each geothermal resource and determine whether selling heat for industrial purposes or generating and subsequently selling power to a grid will generate the highest return on the asset. Cash Requirements We believe our cash and liquid investments at March 31, 2010 are adequate to fund our general operating activities through March 31, 2011 including limited drilling at Neal Hot Springs and general development support activities at San Emidio. Additional funding will be needed to finance the expansion of production volumes at Raft River and the development of the San Emidio, Nevada and Neal Hot Springs, Oregon projects. In addition to government loans and grants discussed below, we anticipate that the additional funding may be raised through the issuance of equity and/or through the sale of ownership interest in tax credits and benefits. The current financial credit crisis is not anticipated to impact the ability of our customers, Idaho Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power, to pay for their power. This power is sold under long-term contracts at fixed prices to large utilities. Projections for 2010 indicate that both projects, Raft River and San Emidio, will generate positive cash flows to the Company. However, the current status of the credit and equity markets could delay our project development activities while the Company seeks to obtain economic credit terms or a favorable equity market price to further the drilling and construction activities. The Company continues discussions with potential investors to evaluate alternatives for funding at the corporate and project levels. We are also pursuing available DOE loans and guarantees in order to reduce interest costs for any debt instruments the Company may require. At the current market price for the Company’s stock, we do not anticipate that additional funding will result from the exercise of current stock options or warrants in the near future. In these difficult financial times, the Company has also implemented procedures to conserve cash, reduce costs and maximize revenue. At the corporate level, we have cancelled non-essential consulting contracts and are reducing all non-critical expenditures. At the project level, Raft River and San Emidio are increasing efforts to reduce operating costs and look for additional cost savings. -9- On March 16, 2010, the Company closed a private placement of securities issued pursuant to a securities purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") entered into with several institutional investors, pursuant to which the Company issued 8,209,519 shares of common stock at a price of $1.05 per share for gross proceeds of approximately $8.6 million (the "Private Placement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Private Placement, each investor was also issued a common share purchase warrant (a "Warrant") exercisable for 50% of the number of shares of common stock purchased by the investor. The Company paid commissions to agents in connection with the Private Placement in the amount of approximately $516,000 and issued warrants to purchase up to 246,285 shares of common stock. The net proceeds of the offering (approximately $8.0 million) will be used by the Company to further develop its Neal Hot Springs geothermal project and for general working capital purposes. On October 30, 2009, the Company was awarded $3.77 million in Recovery Act funding for the exploration and development of its San Emidio geothermal power project using advanced geophysical exploration techniques. This award was categorized under the “Innovative Exploration and Drilling Projects” section of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The project at San Emidio will apply innovative, seismic and satellite imagery techniques along with state-of-the-art structural modeling, to locate large aperture fractures that represent high-productivity geothermal drilling targets. On August 17, 2009, the Company completed a private placement of 8,100,000 Subscription Receipts (“Receipt”) at $1.35 CDN per Receipt for aggregate gross proceeds of CDN $10,935,000. Each Receipt was exchanged on December 17, 2009 for one share of common stock of the Company and one half of one common stock purchase warrant (a "Warrant"). Each Warrant entitles the holder thereof to acquire one additional share of common stock of the Company for $1.75 for 24 months from closing. The placement agents have been paid an aggregate cash fee of CDN $656,100, representing 6% of the aggregate gross proceeds of the offering, and have been issued compensation options, exercisable for 24 months, entitling the placement agents to purchase up to 243,000 shares of common stock of the Company at US$1.22. The proceeds were used to drill up to three production size wells at Neal Hot Springs to increase production capacity to 22 MW and allow a 30-day flow test to verify the well reservoir capacity. Completion of drilling is a condition precedent to the funding from the DOE loan program, if our application is approved. -10- On February 26, 2009 U.S. Geothermal submitted an application for the Neal Hot Springs project to the DOE’s Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and Advanced Transmission and Distribution Solicitation loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Company was notified that its project application is complete, the power plant technology choice qualifies as new or improved under the program, and the project has been selected to proceed in the project loan process. Although we have not yet received approval, the DOE guaranteed loan is expected to provide up to 75% of the $119 million estimated capital cost of Stage I up to a maximum loan amount of $102.2 million. The capital cost has increased to $119 million from prior estimates of $106 million due to costs of labor, updated vendor pricing and construction materials, project loan costs and contingencies. Detailed design of a binary cycle power plant utilizing significantly improved technology is currently in progress with construction expected to begin in mid 2010. The new plant, designed to deliver approximately 22 MW of power net to the grid is scheduled to begin commercial operations in early 2012. The DOE guaranteed loan is anticipated to be a combined construction and term loan and provide the project with a low cost annual interest rate. We expect that we will be required to drill up to 8 additional wells as a condition precedent to drawing on the DOE guaranteed loan, if it is approved. Material Acquisitions/Development Raft River, Idaho Raft River Energy Unit I is located in Idaho and has a 13 net MW capacity geothermal power plant in operation. In early January 2009, production well RRG-7 underwent a temperature decline that has reduced the inlet fluid temperature to the power plant over the past year by approximately 10 degrees Fahrenheit. At the same time of the temperature change, fluid flow increased. Power generation has been reduced by an estimated 1 MW due to the lower temperature fluid. It was determined that the cement in a lap joint had failed so a mechanical packer was installed to reduce the cold water inflow, but was unsuccessful. A remediation program is planned that will “squeeze” cement into the lap joint and plug off the cold water flow to return the well temperature and increase power plant generation. Raft River Unit I operated through the year at 95.2 percent availability which includes a scheduled maintenance outage of 12 days in April that was extended to replace a turbine damaged during construction. Raft River generated in a range of 7.7 to 10.1 net MWs during the twelve month period ended March 31, 2010 averaging 8.8 MWs. The reduction in output for the period compared to the planned generation was due to the loss of temperature from production well RRG-7. The joint venture partners are evaluating a recovery plan that includes repairing the lap joint RRG-7, drilling a new production leg on one or two existing production wells and drilling a new injection well. We anticipate completing the repair of well RRG-7 in the first half of the year before a decision is made on the remainder of the recovery plan. As shown in the table below, Raft River Unit II is estimated to cost approximately $134 million and Raft River Unit III is anticipated to cost approximately $166 million, 75% of which we believe may be funded by loans, with the remainder funded through equity financing. Provided equity funding is available to the project, Raft River Unit II is anticipated to begin construction in the fourth calendar quarter of 2010 with commercial operations commencing in the fourth calendar quarter of 2013. Raft River Unit III is anticipated to begin construction in the first calendar quarter of 2014 with commercial operations commencing in the second calendar quarter of 2015. -11- San Emidio, Nevada The San Emidio geothermal power plant has been producing power since 1987 and sells electricity to Sierra Pacific Power Corporation under an existing power purchase agreement that extends through 2017. Deeper wells with higher temperatures were drilled in 1994 to supply the plant after output declined due to cooling of the original, shallow production wells. The current configuration of the plant consists of four 1.2 gross MW Ormat Energy Converters (“OEC”), five production wells (two wells in use and three on stand by), and four injection wells (three wells in use and one on standby). A cooling tower was added in 1998 to improve summer peak power generation. Power sales from the San Emidio plant for the last fiscal year averaged 2.2 MWs. Two System Feasibility Studies were initiated in July 2008 with Sierra Pacific Power Corporation to begin the FERC mandated transmission study process for the development of the San Emidio resource. The studies are examining two levels of power generation, 15 MWs and 45 MWs, several transmission routes and the costs associated with each level of generation. The System Impact Study for the 15 MW Phase I repower, the second phase of interconnection study process, was completed in July and confirmed that the existing transmission system was able to handle up to 15 MWs. The third phase study, the Interconnection Facilities Study for the 15 MW option, was completed in October. A draft interconnection agreement is expected from Sierra Pacific Power before the end of the second calendar quarter of 2010. Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, the System Impact Study for the 45 MW option was received in April. The third phase study for the 45 MW option, the Interconnection Facilities Study, will be contracted during the second calendar quarter and is expected to be completed before year end. On October 30, 2009, the Company was awarded $3.77 million in Recovery Act funding for the exploration and development of its San Emidio geothermal power project using advanced geophysical exploration techniques. This award was categorized under the “Innovative Exploration and Drilling Projects” section of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The project at San Emidio will apply innovative, seismic and satellite imagery techniques along with state-of-the-art structural modeling, to locate large aperture factures that represent high-productivity geothermal drilling targets. Initial geologic mapping under the program has been initiated and the seismic team has been contracted. The San Emidio expansion will take place in two phases. Phase I will be a repower and Phase II will be the expansion. Phase I will utilize the existing production and injection wells with a new, more efficient power plant. As shown in the table below, the repower is anticipated to cost approximately $30 million and the expansion is anticipated to cost $127 million, 75% of which we believe may be funded by a Department of Energy loan guarantee, with the remainder funded through equity financing. The Phase I repower is anticipated to begin construction in the third calendar quarter of 2010 with commercial operations commencing in the fourth calendar quarter of 2011 or first calendar quarter of 2012. The Phase II expansion is anticipated to begin construction in the second calendar quarter of 2010 with commercial operations commencing in the third calendar quarter of 2012. The Company hopes to utilize Investment Tax Credits in connection with both the repower and the expansion. Both phases will require an amendment to the Sierra Pacific Power Purchase Agreement. -12- Neal Hot Springs, Oregon Neal Hot Springs is a promising geothermal resource located in Eastern Oregon. On February 26, 2009 U.S. Geothermal submitted an application for the Neal Hot Springs project to the DOE’s Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and Advanced Transmission and Distribution Solicitation loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Company was notified that its project application is complete, the power plant technology choice qualifies as new or improved under the program, and the project has been selected to proceed in the project loan process. Although we have not yet received approval, the DOE guaranteed loan is expected to provide up to 75% of the $119 million estimated capital cost of Stage I up to a maximum loan amount of $102.2 million. The capital cost has increased to $119 million from prior estimates of $106 million due to costs of labor, updated vendor pricing and construction materials, loan costs and contingencies. Detailed design of a binary cycle power plant utilizing significantly improved technology is currently in progress with construction expected to begin in mid 2010. The new plant, designed to deliver approximately 22 MWs of power net to the grid is scheduled to begin commercial operations in early 2012. The DOE guaranteed loan is anticipated to be a combined construction and term loan and provide the project with a low cost annual interest rate. We expect that we will be required to drill up to 8 additional wells as a condition precedent to drawing on the DOE guaranteed loan. At our Neal Hot Springs project, an infill geophysical program was carried out to increase the density of data to highlight suspected geologic targets and structures. Applications for four additional exploration wells to further delineate the geothermal resource with production and injection targets were approved by the state of Oregon on September 11, 2009 and drilling of the second production well, NHS-5, began on September 18, 2009. October 15, 2009, the Company successfully completed well NHS-5, the second full size production well at the Neal Hot Springs project located in eastern Oregon. NHS-5 encountered several lost circulation zones within the targeted horizon and intercepted a large aperture fracture at 2,796 feet resulting in a total loss of circulation. The well was completed to a depth of 2,896 feet. An initial 16 hour flow test completed using air lift produced fluid at a rate of 1,500 gallons per minute and resulted in a down hole flowing temperature of 286º F (141º C). The reservoir-hosting fracture zone intersected in NHS-5 is 509 feet deeper in the geologic system than the large producing fracture intersected by NHS-1 which is located approximately 600 feet to the southeast. Both wells were instrumented with pressure and temperature equipment during the flow test. Geologic information and flow data from the drilling and flow test has been incorporated into the ongoing development of a reservoir model of the Neal Hot Springs geothermal system. -13- In addition to the drilling program for production-sized wells, the company has continued a temperature gradient (“TG”) drilling program utilizing a small diameter drill hole. Eleven TG holes ranging in depth from 500 to 1,060 feet have been completed, and are providing valuable temperature gradient data for the overall area that hosts the Neal Hot Springs reservoir. Currently, several TG holes are being deepened and another three to five new TG holes will be drilled with a number of the holes planned to reach a depth of 2,000 feet as the size of the geothermal anomaly is defined. The Company received the Conditional Use Permit from the Malheur County Planning Commission for construction of its proposed 22 net MW power plant at Neal Hot Springs in eastern Oregon. The Conditional Use Permit received unanimous approval at a September 24, 2009 Planning Commission meeting and was issued on October 28, 2009. All of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) mandated transmission studies have been completed by Idaho Power Company. An interconnection agreement was signed with the Idaho Power Company in February 2009. Private right-of-ways for the transmission line have been acquired, the line route is surveyed and the final engineering design has reached approximately 99% completion. The power purchase agreement (“PPA”) for the project was signed on December 11, 2009 with the Idaho Power Company. The PPA has a 25 year term with a starting price of $96 per MW-hour and escalates at a set percentage annually. Idaho Power Company submitted the PPA to the Idaho Public Utilities Commission on December 28, 2009. IPUC authorized a Modified Procedure for review of the PPA on March 17, 2010 which calls for a 45 day public comment period and 10 day reply period. Subsequent to the end of the year, approval of the PPA by the IPUC was received on May 20, 2010. The total development cost of Neal Hot Springs Stage II is anticipated to be $154 million. Construction is anticipated to begin in the third quarter of 2011 with commercial operations commencing in the third quarter of 2013. Gerlach, Nevada An EA has been completed and a drill site has been permitted on one of the BLM leases. Planning is underway to drill a 2,000 foot temperature gradient well and a shallow, 300-700 foot deep exploration/production well in 2010. Past drilling has indicated the presence of a shallow 260 to 265° F resource on the property in addition to a possible higher temperature, deep resource. Granite Creek, Nevada The Granite Creek assets are comprised of three BLM geothermal leases totaling approximately 5,414 acres (8.5 square miles) located about 6 miles north of Gerlach, Nevada along a geologic structure known to host geothermal features including the Great Boiling Spring and the Fly Ranch Geyser. A first stage gravity geophysical program was completed in the third quarter of 2008 and will be used to evaluate the resource potential, and help determine where to drill temperature-gradient exploration wells. -14- Republic of Guatemala Subsequent to the end of the year, the Company announced on April 15 that it was successful in acquiring a geothermal concession in the Republic of Guatemala. The concession consists of 24,710 acres (100 square kilometers) and is located 14 miles southwest of Guatemala City, the capital. Nine wells with depths ranging from 560 to 2,000 feet (170 to 610 meters) were drilled in the El Ceibillo resource area within the concession area during the l990s. Six of the wells have measured reservoir temperatures in the range of 365 to 400°F (185 to 204°C). Fluid sample analysis and the mineralogy associated with drill cuttings suggest the existence of a deeper, higher permeability reservoir with temperature potential of 410 to 446°F (210 to 230°C). Preliminary reservoir, transmission and environmental studies have been completed for the project. Four additional prospects containing fumaroles and hot springs are located within the concession area. Planning is underway for deepening and detailed testing of the El Ceibillo wells to quantify their electrical generating capacity and to explore the other prospective areas. Projects in Operation Generating Contract Project Location Ownership Capacity (MW)(1) Power Purchaser Expiration Raft River (Unit I) Idaho JV(2) 13.0 Idaho Power Company 2032 San Emidio (Existing) Nevada 100% 3.6 Sierra Pacific Power Corp. 2017 (1) Based on the designed annual average net output. The actual output of the Raft River Unit I plant currently varies between 7.1 and 10.0 megawatts and output of the Empire plant is approximately 2.6 megawatts. (2) As part of the financing package for Unit I of the Raft River project, we have contributed $16.5 million in cash and approximately $1.5 million in property to Raft River Energy I LLC, the Unit I project joint venture company. Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, contributed $34 million to finance the construction of the project. Additional investment may be required for Unit I to operate at design capacity. Projects Under Development Target Projected Capital Development Commercial Required Anticipated Project Location Ownership (MW) Operation Date ($million) Power Purchaser San Emidio Phase I (Repower) Nevada 100 5.4 1st Quarter 2012 $30 NV Energy San Emidio Phase II (Expansion) Nevada 100 26 3rd Quarter 2012 $127 TBD Neal Hot Springs 1 Oregon 100 22 2ndQuarter 2012 $119 Idaho Power Neal Hot Springs II Oregon 100 28 3rd Quarter 2013 $154 TBD Raft River I (Repower) Idaho JV 3 3rd Quarter 2010 $7 Idaho Power Raft River (Unit II) Idaho 100 26 4th Quarter 2013 $134 Eugene Water and Electric Board Raft River (Unit III) Idaho 100 32 2nd Quarter 2015 $166 TBD -15- Additional Properties Project Location Ownership Target Development (MW) Gerlach Nevada 60% To be determined Granite Creek Nevada 100% To be determined El Ceibillo Guatemala, S.A. 100% To be determined Resource Details Resource Property Size Temperature Potential Property (square miles) (°F) (MW) Depth (Ft) Technology Raft River 10.8(1) 275-302(2) 127.0(1) 4,500-6,000 Binary San Emidio 35.8 289-305(2) 68.0(4) 1,500-2,000 Binary Neal Hot Springs 9.6 311-347(3) 50.0(5) 2,500-3,000 Binary Gerlach 5.6 338-352(3) 18.0 TBD Binary Granite Creek 8.5 TBD 25.0(6) TBD Binary El Ciebillo 38.6 410-446(3) TBD TBD Steam (1) Geothermex Inc.’s assessment of 94 MW was based on 6.0 square miles. The Company acquired additional acreage. The resource estimate of 127.0 MW is an internal estimate. (2) Actual production temperatures for existing wells. (3) Probable reservoir temperature as measured with a geothermometer. (4) Black Mountain Technology Resource estimate with respect to 49.0 MW, remainder is an internal estimate. (5) Geothermal Science, Inc. resource estimate with respect to 22.0 MW, remainder is an internal estimate. (6) Internal estimate. Employees At March 31, 2010, the Company had 33 full-time and one part time employee (12 administrative and project development, and 22 field and plant operations). The Company continuously considers acquisition opportunities, and if the Company is successful in making acquisitions, additional management and administrative staff may be added. The Company did not experience any labor disputes or labor stoppages during the current fiscal year. Principal Products The principal product is based upon activities related to the production of electrical power from the utilization of the Company’s geothermal resources. The primary product will be the direct sale of power generated by our interests in our geothermal power plants. Currently our principal revenues consist of energy sales, consulting and management fees, and lease income. All power plants currently under exploration or development are sites located in the Western Region of the United States of America. The Company was granted a geothermal energy rights concession in the Republic of Guatemala located in Central America in April of 2010. Development options are currently being explored to determine how to maximize this opportunity. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials -16- Geothermal energy is natural heat energy stored within the Earth’s crust at economically accessible depth. In some areas of the Earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result from a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. There are four major components (or factors) to a geothermal resource: 1. Heat source and temperature – The economic viability of a geothermal resource is related to the amount of heat generated. The higher the temperature, the more valuable the geothermal resource. 2. Fluid – A geothermal resource is commercially viable only when the system contains water and/or steam as a medium to transfer the heat energy to the surface. 3. Permeability – The fluid present underground must be able to move. In general, significant porosity and permeability within the rock formation are needed to create a viable reservoir. 4. Depth – The cost of development increases with depth, as do resource temperatures. The proximity of the reservoir to the surface is therefore a key factor in the economic valuation of a geothermal resource. Electrical power is directly produced through the utilization of geothermal resources; however, these resources are not a direct component of the final product. Raft River Energy Unit I, located in Raft River, Idaho is a proven geothermal resource, and has a 13 net MW capacity geothermal power plant in operation. San Emidio, Nevada is a proven geothermal resource, and has a 3.6 net MW capacity geothermal plant in operation. Unless major geological changes occur that impact the geothermal reservoirs, the condition of the existing resources is expected to remain consistent over time. Each power plant constructed will have an impact on the temperature and pressure of the tapped reservoir. The extent of this impact and the results of future drilling exploration to determine the actual extent of the reservoir will be a limiting factor on the number of plants that can be constructed at a particular reservoir. Significant Patents, Licenses, Permits, Etc. Raft River. Five significant permits are in place for the Raft River project and are necessary for continued operations: 1. Geothermal well permits for production and injection wells issued by the Idaho Department of Water Resources. 2. A Conditional Use Permit for the first two power plants was issued by the Cassia County Planning and Zoning Commission on April 21, 2005. 3. The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality issued the Air Quality Permit to Construct on May 26, 2006. -17- 4. A Wastewater Reuse Permit issued by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on February 23, 2007. San Emidio. The San Emidio project has five significant permits in place necessary for continued operations: 1. Geothermal well permits for production and injection wells issued by the Nevada Division of Minerals. 2. A Special Use Permit issued by the Washoe County Board of Commissioners on July 1, 1987. 3. An Air Quality Permit to Operate from Washoe County renewed on January 1, 2008. 4. A Surface Discharge Permit from Nevada Division of Environmental Protection issued on June 11, 2001. 5. An Underground Injection Permit from Nevada Division of Environmental Protection issued on August 18, 2000. Seasonality of Business The Company and its major subsidiary (RREI) have been producing energy revenues under the terms of two PPAs. These contracts specify favorable rate periods and levels of production. The San Emidio Nevada plant’s contractual terms provide for premium rates in the months from September to April. The RREI contract pays favorable rates in the months of July/August and November/December. Energy production can be influenced by the seasonal temperatures. Generally, the Company’s binary geothermal plants can operate more efficiently in cooler temperatures. Cooler temperatures facilitate the cooling process of the secondary fluid that is used to power the turbines. Drilling and other construction activities could be negatively impacted by inclement weather that can occur, primarily, during the winter months. Industry Practices/Needs for Working Capital The Company is heavily involved in development operations; therefore high levels of working capital are committed, either directly or indirectly to the construction efforts. After a plant becomes commercially operational, the needs of working capital are expected to be low. This assumption is primarily based upon the projected revenues and operational expenses, as well as the actual operating results of the Raft River Energy I, LLC that became operational January 3, 2008. The Company is expecting to be significantly involved in development activities for the next 5 to 10 years. -18- Dependence on Few a Customers Ultimately, the market for electrical power is vast; however, the numbers of entities that can physically, logistically and economically purchase the commodity in large quantities in our area of operations are limited. The Company currently collects revenues from two major sources that include the Idaho Power Company (through the Company’s major subsidiary Raft River Energy Unit I) and Sierra Pacific Power Company. Even at planned levels of operation, it is expected that the Company and its interests will have a small number of direct customers that may amount to less than 4 or 5. Competitive Conditions Although the market for different forms of energy is large and dominated by very powerful players, we perceive our industrial competition to be independent power producers and in particular those producers who provide “green” renewable power. Our definition of green power is electricity derived from a source that does not pollute the air, water or earth. Sources of green power, in addition to geothermal, include wind, solar, biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric. A number of states have instituted renewable portfolio standards (“RPS”) that require utilities to purchase a minimum percentage of their power from renewable sources. For example, RPS statutes in California and Nevada require 20% renewable. On November 17, 2008, the Governor of California signed executive order which mandated a RPS of 33% by 2020 which sits in addition to the 20% order. According to the Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy department, utilities in 34 states nationwide are providing their customers with the opportunity to purchase green, renewable power through premium pricing programs. As a result, we believe green power is an important sub-market in the broader electric market, in which many power purchasers are increasing or committing to increase their investments. Accordingly, the conventional energy producers do not provide direct competition. In the Pacific Northwest there is currently only one geothermal facility (Raft River Energy Unit I). There are a number of wind farms, as well as biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric facilities. However, the Company believes that the combination of greater reliability and baseload generation from geothermal, access to infrastructure for deliverability, and a low "full life" cost will allow it to successfully compete for long term power purchase agreements. Factors that can influence the overall market for our product include some of the following: number of market participants buying and selling electricity; availability and cost of transmission; amount of electricity normally available in the market; fluctuations in electricity supply due to planned and unplanned outages of competitors’ generators; fluctuations in electricity demand due to weather and other factors; cost of fuel used by generators, which could be impacted by efficiency of generation technology and fluctuations in fuel supply; environmental regulations that impact us and our competitors; availability of production tax credits and other benefits allowed by tax law; relative ease or difficulty of developing and constructing new facilities; and -19- credit worthiness and risk associated with buyers. Environmental Compliance The Raft River project is in compliance with all environmental permits and water quality monitoring requirements. The most significant investment in environmental compliance in terms of time and cost was associated with water quality monitoring which had been required on a weekly basis. The Company’s second petition to the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) to reduce the monitoring obligations was accepted. IDWR has concurred that there is no impact from the Company’s operations on adjacent aquifers. Since operations have been initiated, key environmental reports include: 1) Monthly production and injection reports which are filed with the IDWR; 2) Quarterly ground water monitoring reports which are filed with IDWR; 3) Annual land application and blowdown water quality reports filed with the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. 4) Annual Tier II reporting filed with the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security, Local Emergency Planning Committee, and the local fire department. The Raft River project is ideally suited in a rural agricultural area. The nearest full time resident is located over one mile south of the plant. The nearest part time resident is located approximately one half mile north of the plant. Additionally, there are no unique plant or animal communities in the area and no unique cultural or environmental constraints. Financial Information about Geographic Areas As described in detail in the Property section, the Company’s interest in the Raft River Unit I power plant, located in the southeastern part of the State of Idaho, became operational on January 3, 2008. Similar plants are in the planning stages at the same location as well as locations in Nevada and Oregon. The Company acquired a 3.6 MW geothermal plant and geothermal rights in San Emidio, Nevada. Land acquisitions and rights have been obtained to explore the development and construction of power plants in the southeastern part of the State of Oregon. Substantial drilling and testing activities have occurred during the last fiscal year. In April of 2010, the Company was granted a geothermal energy rights concession in the Republic of Guatemala located in Central America. Significant project strategies have just begun. The Company’s revenues for the three most recent fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $2,579,152, $2,336,202, and $190,721; respectively. All of these revenues were attributable to customers in the Northwest of the United States. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our Internet website at http://www.usgeothermal.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report and is not a part of this report. -20- Governmental Approvals and Regulation U.S. Geothermal Inc. is subject to federal and state regulation in respect of the production, sale and distribution of electricity. Federal legislation includes the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Power Act, and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. HTM is defined as an independent power producer under the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”). As an independent power producer, HTM’s operations are supported by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (“PURPA”) which encourages alternative energy sources such as geothermal, wind, biomass, solar and cogeneration. The State of Idaho also regulates electricity through the Idaho Public Utility Commission (“IPUC”). Regulated utilities have the exclusive right to distribute and sell electricity within their service area. They may purchase electricity in the wholesale market from independent producers like HTM. The IPUC, has the authority to establish rules and regulations governing the sale of electricity generated from alternative energy sources. Regulated utilities are required to purchase electricity on an avoided cost basis from renewable energy facilities, or they may acquire purchased power through bids or negotiated procedures. On May 8, 2006, HTM submitted proposals to Idaho Power in response to their “Request for Proposal for Geothermal Power.” HTM was the preferred respondent and entered power purchase contract negotiations with Idaho Power. The Raft River Unit I Geothermal Power Plant started up under a contract based on avoided costs which limited the output of the plant to 10 average MWs per month. Through subsequent contract negotiations, HTM reduced the long-term price of power to Idaho Power, and is now allowed to deliver as much power in any month as the plant is capable of producing, up to a maximum hourly output of approximately 16 MWs. The annual average output capacity is on the order of 13 MWs. Because carbon regulation is anticipated to increase the cost of power sourced from coal and because there are limited opportunities to purchase baseload geothermal power, HTM has found that utilities across the Western United States are eager to discuss PPAs with HTM. On February 28, 2008, U.S. Geothermal Inc. and Eugene Water and Electric Board (“EWEB”), from Eugene, Oregon signed a power purchase agreement (“PPA”) for the planned Unit II power plant at Raft River. The PPA allows for variable electrical output up to a maximum of 16 MW with a term of 25 years. The PPA is subject to successful drilling and resource development at Raft River. The power will be delivered to the Bonneville Power Agency (“BPA”) customer load in Idaho. The combined sales from the Idaho Power Raft River Unit I contract and the EWEB Unit II contract is anticipated to be 26 MW from two plants. Before the burgeoning interest in geothermal power, the Company had originally planned 30 MWs from three plants. The construction of only two larger plants will result in substantial capital and operating cost savings through improved economy of scale. -21- In addition to the EWEB agreement, the strong regional interest in geothermal power has resulted in numerous utilities inquiring with HTM to purchase the electrical power output of Unit III at Raft River, for the output of the Neal Hot Springs power plants, and for any expanded output at the company’s San Emidio, NV project. We anticipate that future plants will be developed under PPAs that do not restrict the output of the project. The most recent such contract was a 25 MW (maximum) contract signed with Idaho Power on December 11, 2009 for the full output of the Neal Hot Springs development in Oregon. The contract has received approval from the Idaho PUC. The levelized cost of power for the project is $117.55/MWh for 25 years after the plant startup. HTM will be required to obtain various federal, state and county approvals for construction of future geothermal facilities. These approvals are issued by entities such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, State (NV, OR, ID) Departments of Environmental Quality, Water Resources, State Historic Preservation Offices, the applicable land management agency, and County Commissioners. For project development in Idaho and Oregon, David Evans & Associates of Boise, Idaho has provided consulting and engineering services for transmission and interconnection issues. Centra Consulting, Inc. of Boise, Idaho has been retained to assist with State of Idaho air quality and cooling water reuse permitting, and we have retained various environmental engineering firms and regulatory consultants to advise and assist HTM with regard to siting, design and regulatory compliance. For project development in Nevada, U.S. Geothermal is retaining similar consulting firms to supplement in-house staff. Environmental Credits In the past several years, there has been increased demand for energy generated from geothermal resources in the United States as production costs for electricity generated from geothermal resources have become competitive relative to fossil fuel generation. This is partly due to newly enacted legislative and regulatory incentives, such as production tax credits and state renewable portfolio standards. State renewable portfolio standards laws require that an increasing percentage of the electricity supplied by electric utility companies operating in states with such standards will be derived from renewable energy resources until certain pre-established goals are met. We expect increasing demand for energy generated from geothermal and other renewable resources in the United States as additional states adopt or extend renewable portfolio standards. As a “green” power producer, environmental-related credits, such as renewable energy credits or carbon credits, are also available for sale to power companies (to allow them to meet their “green” power requirements) or to businesses which produce carbon based pollution. In all of U.S. Geothermal Inc.’s project, these credits have been sold separately, or bundled with the electricity to provide an additional source of revenue. We expect the following key incentives to influence our results of operation: -22- Production Tax Credits and Investment Tax Credits. Production tax credits provide project owners with a federal tax credit for the first ten years of plant operation. At present, unless extended, facilities constructed after December 31, 2014 will not be eligible to use this production tax credit. The federal production tax credit available for geothermal energy in 2009 was 2.1 cents per kilowatt-hour. For projects under construction before the end of 2010 and online before the end of 2013, a project can elect to take a 30% investment tax credit in lieu of the PTC. The ITC may be converted into a cash grant within the first 60 days of operation of the plant. Renewable Energy Credits. Renewable Energy Certificates, or RECs, are tradable environmental commodities that represent proof that 1 MW-hour of electricity was generated from an eligible renewable energy resource. A renewable energy provider is credited with one REC for every 1,000 kilowatt-hours or 1 MW-hour of electricity it produces. The electrical energy is fed into the electrical grid and the accompanying REC can either be delivered to the purchaser of the power (“bundled”) or can be sold on the open market providing the renewable energy producer with an additional source of income. On July 29, 2006, U.S. Geothermal, Inc. signed a $4.6 million renewable energy credits purchase and sales agreement with Holy Cross Energy, a Colorado cooperative electric association. The agreement is capped at 87,600 RECs (10 MWs average over the year). Holy Cross Energy began purchasing the renewable energy credits associated with the Raft River Unit I power production on October 2007, and is expected to continue purchasing through 2017. Under the revised RRU1 agreement with Idaho Power, keeps all RECs above 87,600 RECs per year. In addition, we retain 49% of the renewable energy credits associated with power production from Raft River Unit I after 2017 and Idaho Power retains the other 51%. We expect to receive a majority of the annual revenue from the ten-year renewable energy credits sales arrangement with Holy Cross Energy. The power purchase agreements for the existing San Emidio power plant, the planned Raft River Unit II facility, and the planned Neal Hot Springs facility are all for bundled power and RECs. Therefore, under these contracts all RECs are delivered with the net power delivered to the utility. Regulatory Update In January 2009, Congress extended the federal PTC for renewable energy power plants for all projects initiating commercial production prior to December 31, 2013. The PTC enhances the annual revenues of the projects by about 25 percent per year for the first 10 years. Additionally, Congress provided that for power plants that begin construction before the end of 2010, the Company may elect to use the 30% ITC in lieu of the PTC. Application for the cash ITC payment may be made 60 days after the start of commercial generation and would be paid directly from the Department of Treasury. -23- ITEM 1A. Risk Factors General Business Risks Our future performance depends on our ability to establish that the geothermal resource is economically sustainable. Geothermal resource exploration and development involves a high degree of risk. The recovery of the amounts shown for geothermal properties and related deferred costs on our financial statements, as well as the execution of our business plan generally, is dependent upon the existence of economically recoverable and sustainable reserves. Expansion of the production of power from our interests is not certain and depends on successful drilling and discovery of additional geothermal hydrothermal resources in quantities and containing sufficient heat necessary to economically fuel future plants. We have a need for substantial additional financing and will have to significantly delay, curtail or cease operations if we are unable to secure such financing. The Company requires substantial additional financing to fund the cost of continued development of the Neal Hot Springs (Oregon), San Emidio, Gerlach, Guatemala and Granite Creek Ranch (Nevada) projects. Also, the Company requires funds for other operating activities, and to finance the growth of our business, including the construction and commissioning of power generation facilities. We may not be able to obtain the needed funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, significant dilution to our current shareholders may occur and new investors may get rights that are preferential to current shareholders. Alternatively, we may have to bring in joint venture partners to fund further development work, which would result in reducing our interests in the projects. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to pursue our growth strategy in the geothermal power production segment, which may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations. When we identify a geothermal property that we may seek to acquire or to develop, a substantial capital investment will be required. Our continued access to capital, through project financing or through a partnership or other arrangements with acceptable terms is necessary for the success of our growth strategy. Our attempts to secure the necessary capital may not be successful on favorable terms, or at all. Market conditions and other factors may not permit future project and acquisition financings on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on favorable terms, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, investor confidence, the continued success of current projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using equity financing which will have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to build new plants or acquire facilities from third parties. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. -24- It is very costly to place geothermal resources into commercial production. Before the sale of any power can occur, it will be necessary to construct a gathering and disposal system, a power plant, and a transmission line, and considerable administrative costs would be incurred, together with the drilling of additional wells. For Raft River Energy Unit I, capital contributions of approximately $52 million were needed. Future expansion of power production at Raft River, Idaho and San Emidio, Nevada and development of new power production capability at Neal Hot Springs may result in significantly increased capital costs related to increased production and injection well drilling and higher costs for labor and materials. To fund expenditures of this magnitude, we may have to find a joint venture participant with substantial financial resources. There can be no assurance that a participant can be found and, if found, it would result in us having to substantially reduce our interest in the project. We may be unable to realize our strategy of utilizing the tax and other incentives available for developing geothermal power projects to attract strategic alliance partners, which may adversely affect our ability to complete these projects. Part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. Our participation in the joint venture is subject to risks relating to working with a co-venturer. Raft River Energy I LLC is the Unit I project joint venture company with Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Raft River I Holdings, LLC has contributed a total of $34.2 million in cash and we have contributed over $16.4 million in cash and approximately $1.5 million in production and injection wells and geothermal leases to Raft River Energy I LLC. We are subject to risks in working with a co-venturer that could adversely impact Unit I of the Raft River project as well as anticipated development of Raft River Unit II. It’s possible that the Raft River Unit II power plant may utilize the geothermal resource within the Raft River Unit I joint venture boundaries. Further, our contribution to the joint venture may exceed returns from the joint venture, if any. Additional capital is needed to repair the existing wells to deliver the full capacity of the resource available to the project. There is a risk that the partner may not agree to the capital needs which could reduce the plant’s performance and profitability. We are a holding company and our revenues depend substantially on the performance of our subsidiaries and the projects they operate. We are a holding company whose primary assets are our ownership of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. We conduct no other business and, as a result, we depend entirely upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and cash flow. Our subsidiaries and projects may be restricted in their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the satisfaction of other obligations, including the payment of operating expenses or debt service. We may not be able to manage our growth due to the commencement of operations of the Raft River and San Emidio power plants and exploration activities in Neal Hot Springs which could negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Significant growth in our operations will place demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources, and the increased scope of our operations will present challenges to us due to increased management time and resources required and our existing limited staff. Our future performance and profitability will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operational, financial and administrative functions of Raft River and San Emidio and other acquired properties into our operations, to hire additional personnel and to implement necessary enhancements to our management systems to respond to changes in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our inability to manage the increased scope of operations, to integrate acquired properties, to hire additional personnel or to enhance our management systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. -25- If we incur material debt to fund our business, we could face significant risks associated with such debt levels. We will need to procure significant additional financing to construct, commission and operate our power plants in order to generate and sell electricity. If this financing includes the issuance of material amounts of debt, this would expose the Company to risks including, among others, the following: a portion of our cash flow from operations would be used for the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness and would not be available for financing capital expenditures or other purposes; a significant level of indebtedness and the covenants governing such indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business because certain activities or financing options may be limited or prohibited under the terms of agreements relating to such indebtedness; a significant level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to defaults by the purchasers of electricity or in the event of a downturn in our business because of fixed debt service obligations; and the terms of agreements may require us to make interest and principal payments and to remain in compliance with stated financial covenants and ratios. If the requirements of such agreements were not satisfied, the lenders could be entitled to accelerate the payment of all outstanding indebtedness and foreclose on the collateral securing payment of that indebtedness, which would likely include our interest in the project. In such event, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available or could obtain the financing required to meet our obligations, including the repayment of outstanding principal and interest on such indebtedness. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we may acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and -26- the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The success of our business relies on retaining our key personnel. We are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel J. Kunz, our Chief Financial Officer, Kerry D. Hawkley, our Vice President of Finance, Jonathan Zurkoff, our Chief Operating Officer, Douglas J. Glaspey, and Kevin R. Kitz, our Vice President – Project Development. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect upon us. As of the date of this report, the Company has executed employment agreements with these persons, but does not have key-man insurance on any of them. Our development activities are inherently very risky. The high risks involved in the development of a geothermal resource cannot be over-stated. The development of geothermal resources at our Raft River, Idaho; San Emidio, Nevada and Neal Hot Springs, Oregon projects are such that there cannot be any assurance of success. Exploration costs are high and are not fixed. The geothermal resource cannot be relied upon until substantial development, including drilling, has taken place. The costs of development drilling are subject to numerous variables such as unforeseen geologic conditions underground which could result in substantial cost overruns. Drilling for geothermal resource at Raft River is relatively deep with the average depth of wells some 6,000 feet. Drilling at Neal Hot Springs, Raft River and San Emidio may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays of equipment and services. If our drilling activities are not successful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the substantial risk that wells drilled will not be productive, or may decline in productivity after commencement of production, hazards such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations, pressures, downhole conditions, mechanical failures, blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of well fluids, pollution and other physical and environmental risks are inherent in geothermal exploration and production. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. -27- The impact of governmental regulation could adversely affect our business by increasing costs for financing or development of power plants. Our business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and distribution of electricity, and environmental and safety matters. On a Federal level, the most important tax rule that affects our business is the PTC, which was extended to December 31, 2014. Recent legislation enacted as part of the stimulus funding has also provided an election to take 30% ITC in lieu of the PTC and convertible into a cash grant for certain qualified investments being initiated before the end of 2010 and being placed in service before the end of 2013. The loss of the PTC or ITC is a risk that could result in making future expansions at Raft River, San Emidio and at Neal Hot Springs uneconomic. New rules recently adopted by the Bureau of Land Management, as directed by the Energy Policy Act of 2005, require competitive auction of all geothermal leases on Federal lands. Competitive leasing is significantly increasing the cost of obtaining leases on Federal land, is adding to the capital costs needed to develop geothermal projects, is increasing the total electrical power prices needed to make a geothermal project viable and is making it more difficult to acquire additional adjacent lands for reservoir protection and exploration. If Federal lands or any Federal involvement are included in any geothermal development, requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") will be triggered. Most of the geothermal resource in the United States is located in the western states, where the Federal Government often is the largest landowner. If a NEPA action is triggered, such as an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment, a project delay of one to two years and a cost of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000 or more may be incurred while the environmental permitting process is completed. NEPA not only can impact the property where the geothermal resource is located, but includes the siting and construction of transmission lines. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. In the states of Idaho, Nevada and Oregon, drilling for geothermal resources is governed by specific rules. In Nevada drilling operations are governed by the Division of Minerals (Nevada Administrative Code Chapter 534A); in Idaho by the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDAPA 37 Title 03 Chapter 04); and in Oregon by the Division of Oil, Gas and Mineral Industries (Division 20 Geothermal Regulation). These rules require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste and other matters, and, may not allow or may restrict drilling activity, or may require that a geothermal resource be unitized (shared) with adjoining land owners. Such laws and regulations may increase the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our geothermal wells, the power plant and other facilities. State environmental requirements and permits, such as the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Permit to Construct, include public disclosure and comment. It is possible that a legal protest could be triggered through one of the permitting processes that would delay construction and increase cost for one of our projects. The state of Oregon has an Energy Facility Siting Council that must issue a site certificate for any geothermal energy facilities of 35 MWs or higher which could affect the Neal Hot Spring project by adding additional cost and delay construction. Because of these state and federal regulations, we could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remediation costs. We could potentially discharge such materials into the environment: from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; -28- leakage of fluids or airborne pollutants from gathering systems, pipelines, power plant and storage tanks; damage to geothermal wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and blowouts, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business by increasing cost and the time required to explore and develop geothermal projects. In addition, because the Vulcan Property at Raft River was previously operated by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by such former operators. Industry competition may impede our growth and ability to enter into power purchase agreements on terms favorable to us, or at all, which would negatively impact our revenue. The electrical power generation industry, of which geothermal power is a sub-component, is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully or grow our business. We compete in areas of pricing, grid access and markets. The industry in the Western United States, in which the Raft River and San Emidio projects are located, is complex as it is composed of public utility districts, cooperatives and investor-owned power companies. Many of the participants produce and distribute electricity. Their willingness to purchase electricity from an independent producer may be based on a number of factors and not solely on pricing and surety of supply. If we cannot enter into power purchase agreements on terms favorable to us, or at all, it would negatively impact our revenue and our decisions regarding development of additional properties. Some of our leases will terminate if we do not achieve commercial production during the primary term of the lease, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as we achieve commercial production or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet achieved commercial production of the geothermal resources. Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not achieve commercial production and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable project is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection, all of which may not be possible or could result in increased cost to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Claims have been made that some geothermal plants cause seismic activity and related property damage. There are approximately two-dozen steam geothermal plants operating within a fifty-square-mile region in the area of Anderson Springs, in Northern California, and there is general agreement that the operation of these plants causes a generally low level of seismic activity. Some residents in the Anderson Springs area have asserted property damage claims against those plant operators. There are significant issues whether the plant operators are liable, and to date no court has found in favor of such claimants. While we do not believe the areas of the Raft River, Idaho, San Emidio, Nevada and Neal Hot Springs, Oregon binary cycle power plant projects will present the same geological or seismic risks, there can be no assurance that we would not be subject to similar claims and litigation, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. -29- Actual costs of construction or operation of a power plant may exceed estimates used in negotiation of power purchase and power financing agreements. The Company’s initial power purchase contract is under rates established by the Idaho Public Utility Commission, using an “avoided-cost” model for cost of construction and operating costs of power plants. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, the Company may not be able to build the contemplated power plants, or if constructed, may not be able to operate profitably. The Company’s financing agreements provide for a priority payback to our partner. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, we may not be able to operate profitably or receive the planned share of cash flow and proceeds from the project. The actual costs of operating the Raft River power project are higher than the original estimate due to several factors including the need to filter the ground water for cooling to remove harmful and unanticipated chloride levels in the water, the need to purchase production pump power from a third party to provide maximum plant output, and increased general costs related to labor and management. Payments under our Raft River Unit I power purchase agreement may be reduced if we are unable to forecast our production adequately. Under the terms of our power purchase agreement for Raft River Unit I, and starting with the third year of operation (2010), if we do not deliver electricity output within 90% to 110% of our forecasted amount, which requires us to submit a forecast every three months, payments for the amount delivered will be reduced, possibly significantly. For example if the plant produces more than 110% of the power as forecasted then we would not receive any revenue for the amount over the forecast figure. If the plant produces less than 90% of the forecast amount for unexcused reasons, such as normal plant breakdowns and maintenance, then we may be subject to a reduced power price, depending on the prevailing power market conditions. The agreement moves the power price to the market price instead of contracted price. We currently expect to forecast 9 MWs of delivery on a 10-MW plant and the damages would then result if the actual delivery was only 8.1 MWs or less. All 8.1 MWs would be subject to a reduced price that is not possible to predict at this time. The total average revenue per MW hour is approximately $62.40 and the reduction in revenue could be perhaps 30 percent of that amount. As a risk mitigation element, we are not subject to this adjustment until year three of the contract and then we are able to submit a new forecast every three months thereby limiting this exposure. There are some risks for which we do not or cannot carry insurance. Because our current operations are limited in scope, the Company carries property, public liability insurance and directors’ and officers’ liability coverage, but does not currently insure against any other risks. As its operations progress, the Company will acquire additional coverage consistent with its operational needs, but the Company may become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards against which it cannot insure or cannot insure at sufficient levels or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. In particular, coverage is not available for environmental liability or earthquake damage. -30- Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interests arising out of their relationships with other companies. Several of our directors and officers serve (or may agree to serve) as directors or officers of other companies or have significant shareholdings in other companies. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our stock price and business. As a public company, we are subject to numerous governmental and stock exchange requirements, with which we believe we are in compliance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have requirements that we may fail to meet by the required deadlines or we may fall out of compliance with, such as the internal controls assessment, reporting and auditor attestation required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company has documented and tested its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). SOX requires an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by the Company’s independent auditors on internal controls over financial reporting. We may incur additional costs in order to comply with Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our failure to meet regulatory requirements and exchange listing standards may result in actions such as the delisting of our stock impacting our stock’s liquidity; SEC enforcement actions; and securities claims and litigation. Risks Relating To the Market for Our Securities A significant number of shares of our common stock are eligible for public resale. If a significant number of shares are resold on the public market, the share price could be reduced and could adversely affect our ability to raise needed capital. The market price for our common stock could decrease significantly and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity could be adversely affected by the availability and resale of such a large number of shares in a short period of time. If we cannot raise additional capital on terms favorable to us, or at all, it may delay our exploration or development of existing properties or limit our ability to acquire new properties, which would be detrimental to our business. -31- Because the public market for shares of our common stock is limited, investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada and on the NYSE Amex in the United States, and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. The development of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers that are able to sell their shares and market makers that are willing to make a market in the shares. Under these circumstances, the market bid and ask prices for the shares may be significantly influenced by the decisions of the market makers to buy or sell the shares for their own account, which may be critical for the establishment and maintenance of a liquid public market in our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that an active public trading market for the shares will develop or be sustained. The price of our common stock is volatile, which may cause investment losses for our shareholders. The market for our common stock is highly volatile, having ranged in the last fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, from a low of $0.46 CDN to a high of $3.02 CDN on the TSX Exchanges and from a low of $0.39 to a high of $2.95 on the NYSE Amex. The trading price of our common stock on the TSX Exchange and on the NYSE Amex is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, and general economic and market conditions. In addition, statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to our market or relating to our company could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The highly volatile nature of our stock price may cause investment losses for our shareholders. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest any earnings in the development of our projects. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Provisions in our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings, which may deter a takeover attempt. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder acquired such ownership percentage, unless, among other things, our Board of Directors has approved the transaction. This statute likewise may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -32- 