ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS ------------ Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results of Operations In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following risks may affect the Company. If any of these risks occur, the Company's business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. The Company's Business Strategy Relies Upon its Chief Executive Officer and Other Key Employees Stephen H. Wacknitz has been the president and chief executive officer of the Company and the Bank since the inception of both entities. Mr. Wacknitz developed numerous aspects of the Company's current business strategy and the implementation of such strategy depends heavily upon the active involvement of Mr. Wacknitz. The loss of Mr. Wacknitz' services could have a negative impact on the implementation and success of the Company's business strategy. The Company's success will also depend, in large part, upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and marketing personnel to execute the strategic plan. Competition for qualified personnel, especially those in management, sales and marketing is intense. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to attract and retain these persons. The Company's Growth May Not Be Managed Successfully The Company has grown substantially from $606,827,529 in total assets and $534,766,705 in total deposits at December 31, 2004 to $868,988,046 in total assets and $742,431,939 in total deposits at December 31, 2005. The Company expects to continue to experience significant growth in assets, deposits and scale of operations. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, the Company will not have adequate resources to maintain and secure key relationships contemplated by its business plan, and its business and prospects could be harmed. The Company's growth subjects it to increased capital and operating commitments. The Company must recruit experienced individuals that have the skills and experience that it needs to transition the areas of its lending concentration. The plans for continued growth have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on the Company's personnel, systems, and resources. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain and train qualified individuals to implement its business strategy in a timely, cost effective and efficient manner. Dependence on Real Estate A significant portion of the loan portfolio of the Bank is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2005, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 95.4% of the Bank's loan portfolio. A decline in current economic conditions or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans and the value of real estate owned by the Bank, as well as the Company's financial condition and results of operations in general and the market value of the Company's common stock. Acts of nature, including earthquakes and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact the Company's financial condition. In the course of business, the Company may, in the future, acquire through foreclosure, properties securing loans which are in default. In commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, the Bank might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at its sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. The Bank may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties or could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Changes The earnings of the Company are substantially affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates the Bank must pay on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates the Bank receives on loans and short-term investments and the rates it must pay on deposits and borrowings is known as the interest rate spread. Given the Bank's current volume and mix of interest-bearing assets, the Bank's interest rate spread can be expected to increase when market interest rates are rising, and to decline when market interest rates are declining. Although the Bank believes its current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse impact on its business, financial condition and result of operations. 25 Competition Competition may adversely affect the Company's performance. The financial services business in the Company's market area is highly competitive and becoming more so due to changes in regulation, technological advances and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. The Bank faces competition both in attracting deposits and making loans. The Bank competes for loans principally through competitive interest rates and the efficiency and quality of the services provided. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce the market share or cause the prices charged for services to fall. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in the Bank's market area offer certain services, such as trust, investment and international banking services, which the Bank does not offer directly. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries have larger lending limits. These services the Bank may not offer directly may prompt customers to do business with competitors instead of with the Bank. Results may differ in future periods depending on the nature or level of competition. Regulation Both the Company and the Bank are subject to government regulation that could limit or restrict their activities, adversely affecting operations. The financial services industry is heavily regulated. Federal and state regulation is designed to protect the deposits of consumers, not to benefit shareholders. The regulations impose significant limitations on operations, and may be changed at any time, possibly causing results to vary significantly from past results. Government policy and regulation, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for the Company and the Bank. SBA lending is a federal government created and administered program. As such, legislative and regulatory developments can affect the availability and funding of the program. This dependence on legislative funding and regulatory restrictions from time to time causes limitations and uncertainties with regard to the continued funding of such loans, with a resulting potential adverse financial impact on the Bank's business. Currently, the maximum limit on individual 7A loans which the SBA will permit is $2,000,000. Any reduction in this level could have a negative impact on the Company's business. Since the SBA business at the Bank constitutes a significant portion of the Bank's lending business, this dependence on this government program and its periodic uncertainty with availability and amounts of funding creates greater risk for the Bank's business than does other parts of its business. Borrower's Failure to Perform A significant number of the Bank's borrowers and guarantors may fail to perform their obligations as required by the terms of their loans, which could result in larger than expected losses. This risk increases when the economy is weak. The Bank has adopted underwriting and credit policies, and loan monitoring procedures, including the establishment and monitoring of allowance for loan losses. Management believes these policies and practices are reasonable and should minimize loan losses by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the credit portfolio. However, these policies and procedures may not be adequate to prevent unexpected losses that could materially and adversely affect the results of operations. Operations Risks The Bank is subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customers or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. The Bank maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage, when available, to protect against such risks. However, should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by the Bank's internal controls, or is uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Geographic Concentration The Company's operations are located almost entirely in California, except SBA lending. As a result of the California geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic and business conditions in this region. Deterioration in economic and business conditions in our market area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 Risks Associated with our Stock Our Stock Trades Less Frequently Than Others. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. Our Stock Price Is Affected by a Variety of Factors. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors discussed in this section, including, among other things: o Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. o Recommendations by securities analysts. o Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company. o News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. o Perceptions in the marketplace regarding our Company and/or its competitors. Our Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this Report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ------------------------- None 