ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Severe, adverse and precipitous economic and market conditions have adversely affected us and our industry. The recent negative events in the housing market, including significant and continuing home price reductions coupled with the upward trends in delinquencies and foreclosures, have resulted and will likely continue to result in poor performance of mortgage and construction loans and with further deterioration, in significant asset writedowns by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment further contribute to deteriorating credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional writedowns. Financial market and economic instability have caused financial institutions to severely restrict their lending to customers and each other. This market turmoil and credit tightening has exacerbated commercial and consumer deficiencies, the lack of consumer 29 Table of Contents confidence, market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions also have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Due to the severe net loss incurred in 2008 and the resulting undercapitalized position of our company and our bank, we believe there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Refer to Note B—Regulatory Actions, Business Plan and Going Concern Considerations. • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with recent and anticipated legislation Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits, also our current risk profile will cause us to pay higher premiums. • The number of our borrowers that may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could continue to escalate and result in significant credit losses, increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or on any terms from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions, the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies and the favorable governmental treatment afforded to the largest of the financial institutions may adversely affect the our ability to market our products and services and continue to obtain market share. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The legislation that established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the U.S. Treasury established the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, further legislation was signed into law as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact any of this legislation will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following the recent legislation by the Federal Reserve, Congress, U.S. Treasury, the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the temporary increase in FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking 30 Table of Contents system. The recent legislation and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in California, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. As described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” recent turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Our company and our bank are considered undercapitalized. While our management has taken aggressive measures to shore up its liquidity positions, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers experience the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in the San Francisco bay area and in Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. We may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $78.4 million provision for loan losses and charged off $43.3 million. There has been a significant slowdown in the housing market in portions of San Francisco, San Diego, Riverside, and San Bernardino counties where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to financial strain on home builders and suppliers. As of December 31, 2008, we had $837.0 million in commercial real estate and construction loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential building segment in particular could result in additional loan charge offs and provisions for loan losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance and a reserve liability for unfunded loan commitments. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of gross loans outstanding net of deferred fees was 4.69% as of December 31, 2008, 1.56% as of December 31, 2007, and 1.29% as of December 31, 2006. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and losses may exceed current estimates. Although management believes the level of our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, management cannot predict losses or whether the allowance will be adequate or whether regulators will require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. Our dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects us to risks relating to environmental risks that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements that could adversely affect our assets and results of operations. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans that are in default. In commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties or could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Due to the fact that we are under capitalized, we are not allowed to purchase brokered deposits without first obtaining a regulatory waiver. If our sources of liquidity became impair in some manner, and we were unable to access brokered deposits, this event could significantly affect our ability to fund normal operations. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties because we execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of counterparty. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our bank’s concentration in real estate construction loans subjects it to a higher degree of risks in a market downturn such as inadequate security for repayment of those loans and fluctuations in the demand for those loans based on changes in the housing market. We have a high concentration in real estate construction loans. Although we are currently not originating new construction loans, approximately 40% and 47% of our lending portfolio was classified as real estate construction loans as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Our real estate construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared to permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to accurately determine the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. Construction lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction loan, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. Construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds, with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction and may incur a loss. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 32 Table of Contents Historically, our earnings were highly dependent on our continued ability to originate, sell and service SBA loans. Due to the de-emphasis of SBA lending, this dependence has decreased. Historically, our earnings were highly dependent on our ability to generate new SBA loans, as our net income generated from our SBA activities was significant. SBA lending is a federal government created and administered program. As such, legislative and regulatory developments can affect the availability and funding of the program. This dependence on legislative funding and regulatory restrictions from time to time causes limitations and uncertainties with regard to the continued funding of such loans, with a resulting potential adverse financial impact on our business. Currently, the maximum limit on individual 7(a) loans which the SBA will permit is $2 million. Any reduction in this level could adversely affect the volume of our business. Since our SBA business constitutes a significant portion of our lending program, our dependence on this government program and its periodic uncertainty relative to availability and amounts of funding creates greater risk for our business than do more stable aspects of our business. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our executive management team. Our executive management team developed numerous aspects of our current business strategy, and the implementation of that strategy depends heavily upon their active involvement. The loss of the services of our executive officers who are instrumental in addressing the current challenges we face could adversely affect our business strategy and could cause us to incur additional costs and experience impaired operating results while we seek suitable replacements, which, in this environment and given our regulatory status, would be difficult. Our ability to pay cash dividends is restricted by law, by our regulators and by contractual arrangements, and if our bank is unable to pay our holding company cash dividends to meet its cash obligations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be adversely affected. Dividends paid by our bank to our holding company provide cash flow used to service the interest payments on our trust preferred securities. Various statutory provisions and provisions under indentures governing trust preferred securities we have issued restrict the amount of dividends our bank can pay to our holding company without regulatory approval. Due to the FDIC/DFI consent order and the agreement with the Federal Reserve, we are unable to have our bank pay dividends to our company, without FDIC, DFI and Federal Reserve prior approval, and we are unable to pay interest payments on the trust preferred securities, without prior Federal Reserve approval. We deferred payment on the trust preferred securities for the first time during March 2009 and do not anticipate resuming those quarterly payments in the near term. Our company’s inability to receive dividends from our bank could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects in the event there is a default in the payment of the trust preferred securities, and that can occur after 20 consecutive deferral periods and in other circumstances because upon the event of default, an immediately payment demand could be made on the company of all amounts due under the trust preferred instruments. Currently, the outstanding principal amount of the trust preferred securities is $56.9 million. Our bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to and may be adversely affected by interest rate and prepayment changes. Our earnings are substantially affected by changes in prevailing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates we must pay on deposits and borrowings. The difference between the rates we receive on loans and short-term investments and the rates we must pay on deposits and borrowings is known as the interest rate spread. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing assets and liabilities, our interest rate spread can be expected to increase when market interest rates are rising, and to decline when market interest rates are declining. While an increase in interest rates generally should positively affect our net interest margin, it may also cause borrowers with variable loan rates to have difficulty paying their loans and this may have the affect of lowering our loan volume and profits. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume. In addition, the value of our SBA servicing asset and SBA interest only (“I/O”) strip receivable, which totaled $5.0 million and $7.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008, and $5.4 million and $6.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007, are subject to fluctuations based on changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds. Generally, we would expect the value of our SBA servicing asset to decrease in a rising interest rate environment, as well as if prepayment speeds increase. Similarly, the value of our SBA interest-only strip receivable asset is subject to fluctuations in prepayment speeds and would be expected to decrease if prepayment speeds increase. 33 Table of Contents Increasing levels of competition in banking and financial services businesses may reduce our market share or cause the prices we charge for services to fall, which may decrease our profits. Competition may adversely affect our results of operations. The financial services business in our market area is highly competitive and becoming more so due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers, out-of-state financial institutions, intermediaries and the conversion of investment banks to holding companies. We face competition both in attracting deposits and making loans. We compete for loans principally through competitive interest rates and the efficiency and quality of the services we provide. Increased competition in the banking and financial services businesses may reduce loans and deposits or cause the prices we charge for services to fall. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as trust, investment, and international banking services, that we do not offer directly, and may have larger lending limits than ours, which may prompt existing or potential customers to do business with our competitors instead of us. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively use rapid-changing technology in providing and marketing products and services to our customers. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations and compliance with regulatory expectations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing those products and services to our customers. We are required to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available and without additional capital other courses such as selling assets and looking for merger partners will need to be pursued. Under the terms of the FDIC/DFI consent order, our bank is required to develop and adopt a plan by May 12, 2009 that requires a bank Tier 1 leverage ratio above 10% and by April 30, 2009, a plan for our bank to meet the minimum risk based capital requirements, and are acceptable to the agencies. The agreement with the Federal Reserve also requires the adoption of a capital plan by April 30, 2009. This plan is to address current and future capital requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital is contingent on the current capital markets and on our financial performance. Available capital markets are not currently favorable and we do not anticipate any material improvement in these markets in the near term. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital on any terms. If we cannot raise additional capital and/or continue to down-size operations and our size or engage a strategic merger or sale, we may not be able to sustain further deterioration in our financial condition and other regulatory actions may be taken. Both our holding company and our bank are subject to government regulation that limits and restricts their activities and operations and pursuant to such regulatory authority, we are required to comply with the terms of the FDIC/DFI consent order and the Federal Reserve agreement. Lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or additional regulatory actions. The financial services industry is heavily regulated, and the regulatory burden on banks is increasing. Federal and state regulation is designed to protect the deposits of consumers, not to benefit shareholders. Applicable laws and regulations impose significant limitations on operations, and may change at any time, possibly causing results to vary significantly from past results including: (i) compliance expense increases or compliance difficulties; or (ii) adverse affects on loan or deposit pricing. Government policy and regulation, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affect our credit conditions. This Federal Reserve agreement requires that our company obtain Federal Reserve approval before paying dividends, taking dividends from our bank, making payments on subordinated debt or trust preferred securities, incurring debt or purchasing/redeeming our company stock. Further, under the terms of the agreement, our company will submit a capital plan, obtain Federal Reserve approval before appointing new directors or senior executive officers and is required to comply with certain payment restrictions on golden parachute payments and indemnification restrictions and to furnish periodic progress reports to the Federal Reserve regarding compliance with the agreement. Under the terms of the consent order, our bank has agreed to address specific areas through the adoption and implementation of procedures, plans and policies designed to enhance the safety and soundness of our bank. These affirmative actions include management assessment, increased Board participation, implementation of plans to address capital, disposition of assets, allowance for loan losses, reduction in the 34 Table of Contents level of classified and delinquent loans, loan portfolio diversification, profitability, strategic planning, funds management and a reduction in the level of brokered deposits. In addition, our bank is required to maintain specified capital levels, notify the FDIC and the DFI of director and management changes and obtain prior approval of dividend payments. The order specifies certain timeframes for meeting these requirements, and our bank must furnish periodic progress reports to the FDIC and DFI regarding its compliance with the order. If we fail to comply with the agreement or the consent order, the respective agency may pursue the assessment of civil money penalties against the bank and its officers and directors, and they may seek to enforce the order through court proceedings Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to insure against or control our operations risks. We are subject to various operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, communications and information systems failures, errors and breaches, customer or employee fraud, and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. Should an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, or is uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, cause additional regulatory scrutiny, and expose us to litigation risks and possible financial liability, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future sales of our stock by our shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our stock price to decline. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock is lower than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the relatively low trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of those sales or perceptions. There is a possibility that our common stock may be delisted and as a result, become more volatile and less liquid. Due to the current trading price range of our common stock, it is probable that without a substantial and sustained increase in the trading price range of our common stock, the shares will be delisted by The NASDAQ. If that were to occur, our common shares might continue to trade on the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market although there are no assurances. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, OTC-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as capital raising efforts or restructurings; • actions by institutional shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; 35 Table of Contents • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in “Special Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. A natural disaster could harm our business. Historically, California has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wildfires. These natural disasters could harm our operations through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our computer systems, which could prevent or impede us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling the flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. Additionally, natural disasters could negatively impact the values of collateral securing our loans and interrupt our borrowers’ abilities to conduct their businesses in a manner to support their debt obligations, either of which could result in losses and increased provisions for credit losses. The risks described in this report are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 