Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are dependent on contracts with the U.S. federal government for substantially all of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived over 98% of our revenue from federal government contracts, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor. We expect that federal government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any significant agency in the intelligence community or the Department of Defense, or if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were impaired or the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results would be materially harmed. We could be debarred or suspended for, among other things, actions or omissions that are deemed by the government to be so serious or compelling that they affect our contractual responsibilities. For example, we could be debarred for committing a fraud or criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain or performing a contract, or for embezzlement, fraud, forgery, falsification or other causes identified in Subpart 9.4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. In addition, changes in federal government contracting policies could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could materially adversely affect our federal government contracting business are: • budgetary constraints affecting federal government spending generally, or defense and intelligence spending in particular, and annual changes in fiscal policies or available funding; • changes in federal government programs, priorities, procurement policies or requirements; • new legislation, regulations or government union pressures on the nature and amount of services the government may obtain from private contractors; • federal governmental shutdowns (such as occurred during the government’s 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays in the government appropriations process; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices due to problems with, or upgrades to, government information systems, or for other reasons. These or other factors could cause federal governmental agencies, or prime contractors where we are acting as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts or to not exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our FAST contract is likely to affect our operating results. The FAST contract is a multiple award, IDIQ contract with a $7.4 billion ceiling supporting the U.S. Air Force over its approximate one and a half year remaining life. The FAST contract accounted for approximately 21% of our 2006 revenue. If the FAST contract is terminated, or if we fail to be awarded tasks as anticipated, our 12 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES revenue growth could suffer. Although we believe the FAST contract presents an opportunity for additional growth and expansion of our services, we expect that many of the task orders we may be awarded under the FAST contract will be for lead system integrator or program management services, which historically have been less profitable than our other activities, because these activities typically involve a significantly greater use of subcontractors and may have a higher content of material purchases. Margins on subcontractor-based revenue are typically lower than the margins on our direct work. Since the FAST contract is expected to be a significant part of our business for the next few years, we anticipate our operating income, as a percentage of total revenue, will diminish, but will grow in absolute dollars. We face competition, including under the FAST contract, from other firms, some of which have substantially greater resources, industry presence and name recognition. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts and task orders. We compete with many other firms, ranging from small specialized firms to large diversified firms, some of which have substantially greater financial, management and marketing resources than we do. For example, under the FAST contract, we regularly compete for task orders with companies that have annual operating revenue exceeding $20.0 billion. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. Our revenue will be adversely affected if we are unable to retain work previously performed under the ASC/BPA. Historically, a significant amount of our revenue has been earned under the ASC/BPA. For example, revenue under the ASC/BPA was approximately 6%, 7% and 9% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and the largest task order under the ASC/BPA amounted to approximately 1% of our total revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. The ASC/BPA, which was awarded as a small business set-aside contract, expired on August 7, 2006, with work on previously awarded task orders extending into 2007. The replacement contract is also a small business set-aside contract for which we did not qualify to bid as a prime contractor. We believe we have a viable strategy to retain the bulk of our direct work and profitability under the replacement contract because we are a subcontractor to four small businesses that have been awarded the replacement contract. However, our ability to retain work under the replacement contract is uncertain. Some of our work under the ASC/BPA has been converted to other contract vehicles. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. Our performance of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with subcontractors concerning a number of issues, including the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or our decision not to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. As we continue to expand into the program management area under the FAST contract, our exposure to this risk will increase as a result of our reliance on subcontractors that provide specialized products. In extreme cases, subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the government terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of re-procurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. 13 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Each of our contract types, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our costs, and accordingly, a change in our contract mix could increase our risk of incurring losses. We enter into three types of federal government contracts for our services: time-and-materials, fixed-price and cost-plus. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived 50%, 36% and 14% of our revenue from time-and-materials, fixed-price and cost-plus contracts, respectively. For 2005, these percentages of revenue were 50%, 35% and 15%, respectively. For 2004, these percentages were 53%, 30% and 17%, respectively. Each of these types of contracts, to differing degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of performance, which may result in a reduced profit or a loss on the contract for us. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. We assume minimal financial risk on time-and-materials contracts, because we only assume the risk of performing those contracts at negotiated hourly rates. Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a fixed price, which means we assume higher risk. Compared to time-and-materials and cost-plus contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities but involve greater financial risk, because we bear the impact of cost overruns and receive the benefit of cost savings. Under cost-plus contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. To the extent that the actual costs incurred in performing a cost-plus contract are within the contract ceiling and allowable under the terms of the contract and applicable regulations, we are entitled to reimbursement of our costs, plus a profit. However, if our costs exceed the ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. Because we assume the most risk for cost overruns and contingent losses on fixed-price contracts, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our risk of suffering losses. Our profits could be adversely affected if our costs under any of these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. Although we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our consolidated financial statements for losses on our contracts, our contract loss provisions may not be adequate to cover all actual losses that we may incur in the future. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. A number of factors cause our revenue, cash flow and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, including: • fluctuations in revenue earned on fixed-price contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure; • commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; • timing of spending activities by the federal government; • variable purchasing patterns under government GSA schedules, BPAs and IDIQ contracts; • changes in Presidential administrations, Congressional majorities and other senior federal government officials that affect the funding of programs; • changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts in general; • the timing, nature and cost of hardware requirements for our lead system integrator (LSI) services, particularly in light of our expected expansion of these services under the FAST contract; and • scheduling of holidays and vacations, which reduce revenue without a significant reduction in costs. Changes in the volume of services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our cash flow from 14 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES operations, because a relatively large amount of our expenses is fixed. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire, are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional and Executive approval in a timely manner. Our management team is important to our customer relationships. We believe that our success depends partly on the continued contributions of our management team. We rely on our officers and managers to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputations that members of our management team have established and continue to maintain with government and military personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors or subcontractors could result in a decline in our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we derived approximately 29%, 25% and 23%, respectively, of our revenue from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors or from teaming activities in which we and other contractors bid on and execute particular contracts or programs. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or teaming relationships with us, either because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business, or if the government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs or does not award them new contracts. Consolidation in the industry may result in increased cost and lack of availability of subcontractors, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our labor-intensive business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to provide our customers with skilled employees who have advanced information technology and engineering technical services skills and who work well with our customers. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. We obtain some of our contracts on the strength of certain personnel our customers consider key to our successful performance under these contracts. If we are unable to hire and retain these key personnel, these customers may not continue to fund the contracts or award task orders to us. If we fail to manage our growth, including the expansion of our lead systems integrator activities under the FAST contract, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Our business strategy is to continue to expand our operations, including the expansion of our lead system integrator management activities under the FAST contract and the construction of a new aircraft completion center. This strategy may strain our management, operational and financial resources. If we make mistakes in deploying our financial or operational resources or fail to hire the additional qualified personnel necessary to support higher levels of business or attract significant new business for the aircraft completion center, our revenue and earnings could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Covenants in our credit facility may restrict our financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2006, we had $51.0 million in outstanding borrowings under the term loan under our credit facility and $37.8 million outstanding under the revolving loan under our credit facility. This credit facility expires in March 2010. We are subject to certain covenants that limit or restrict our ability to: • borrow money outside of the amounts committed under our credit facility; • make acquisitions; • dispose of our assets outside the ordinary course of business; • use borrowings for particular purposes; • create or hold subsidiaries; • transfer equity interests in subsidiaries; • extend credit or become a guarantor; • encumber our property or assets; • invest more than a limited amount in fixed assets or improvements; • change our accounting policies or the nature of our business; • purchase real estate; • merge or consolidate; and • pay dividends. The credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial standards relating to our net worth, fixed charge coverage, interest coverage and the ratio of our funded indebtedness to our adjusted earnings. We are also subject to other financial covenants that are typical to a facility of this type. In addition, the ratio of our funded indebtedness to our adjusted earnings can affect the interest rates we pay, even if we satisfy the minimum required standard. Our ability to satisfy these standards can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is no assurance that we will satisfy them. We have pledged substantially all our personal property to secure our repayment of any borrowings that we make under our credit facility. Any default by us under our credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our business if our creditors do not waive the default. In addition, any refusal by our lenders to consent to certain transactions could prohibit us from undertaking actions that are necessary to maintain or expand our business. We may have difficulty identifying and completing acquisitions on favorable terms and, therefore may grow at slower than anticipated rates. We may from time to time pursue acquisitions of companies that provide services to specific governmental agencies. Since our initial public offering, we have completed acquisitions of seven complementary businesses. Through acquisitions, we hope to expand our base of federal government clients, increase the range of solutions that we offer our clients and deepen our penetration of our existing client base. We may encounter difficulty identifying suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate. Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory terms for the acquisition or finance the acquisition. If we fail to complete acquisitions, we may not grow as rapidly as the market expects, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that we acquire, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to successfully integrate any businesses that we may acquire. The integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by resulting in 16 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES unforeseen operating difficulties, diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations and requiring significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. Further, our decision to acquire a company may not be driven by cost efficiencies, synergies or increasing revenue. For example, we may seek to acquire one or more of our subcontractors because we do not want to risk losing our relationship with the subcontractor if it is acquired by one of our competitors. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT CONTRACTING Federal government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business. Our business depends upon continued federal government expenditures on intelligence, defense and other programs that we support. The overall U.S. defense budget declined from time to time in the late 1980s and the early 1990s. While spending authorizations for intelligence and defense-related programs by the government have increased in recent years, and in particular after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, future levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. A significant decline in government expenditures or a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. Our federal government contracts may be terminated by the government at any time, and if we do not replace them, our operating results may be adversely affected. We derive most of our revenue from federal government contracts that typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods may cover more than half of the contract’s potential duration. Federal government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts typically also contain provisions permitting a government customer to terminate the contract for its convenience, as well as for our default. A decision by a government agency not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. We cannot recover anticipated profit on terminated work. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts and instead, may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Federal government contracts contain other provisions that may be unfavorable to contractors. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. As described above, these allow the government to terminate a contract for convenience or decline to exercise an option to renew. They also permit the government to do the following: • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government. 17 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We must comply with complex procurement laws and regulations. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations and agency regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data and performance of certain defense-related services to foreign persons. Moreover, we are subject to industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners’ access to classified information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, our federal government customers could terminate or decide not to renew our contracts, and it could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Our contracts are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the federal government. The federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Like most large government contractors, our direct and indirect contract costs are audited and reviewed on a continual basis. Although audits have been completed on our incurred contract costs through 2004, audits for costs incurred or work performed after 2004 remain ongoing and, for much of our work in recent years, have not yet commenced. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue, because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and revenue we have already recognized may need to be refunded. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of claims and profits, suspension of payments, treble damages, statutory penalties, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies, which could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Restrictions on or other changes to the federal government’s use of service contracts may harm our operating results. We derive a significant amount of revenue from service contracts with the federal government. The government may face restrictions from new legislation, regulations or government union pressures on the nature and amount of services the government may obtain from private contractors. For example, the Truthfulness, Responsibility and Accountability in Contracting Act, proposed in 2001, would have limited and severely delayed the government’s ability to use private service contractors. Although this proposal was not enacted, it or similar legislation could be proposed at any time. Any reduction in the government’s use of private contractors to provide services would adversely impact our business. 18 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our participation in the competitive bidding process, from which we derive significant revenue, presents a number of risks. We derive significant revenue from federal government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Most of the business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including the: • need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and • expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. In addition, pricing pressures may arise from increased competition and, therefore, reduce our operating margins. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We may not receive the full amount authorized under contracts that we have entered into and may not accurately estimate our backlog and GSA schedule contract value. The maximum contract value specified under a government contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of revenue that we will realize under that contract. For example, we derive some of our revenue from government contracts in which we are not the sole provider, meaning that the government could turn to other companies to fulfill the contract, and from IDIQ contracts, which specify a maximum but only a nominal minimum amount of goods or services that may be provided under the contract. In addition, Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program on a yearly basis, even though the contract may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. As a result, contracts typically are only partially-funded at any point during their term and all or some of the work to be performed under the contracts may remain unfunded unless and until Congress makes subsequent appropriations and the procuring agency allocates funding to the contract. As described above, most of our existing contracts are subject to modification and termination at the federal government’s discretion. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any contract included in our estimated contract value that generates revenue will be profitable. Nevertheless, we look at these contract values, including values based on the assumed exercise of options relating to these contracts, in estimating the amount of our backlog. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our backlog may not accurately estimate our revenue. GSA schedules are procurement vehicles under which government agencies may, but are not required to, purchase professional services or products. We have developed a method of calculating GSA schedule value that we use to evaluate estimates for the revenue we may receive under our GSA schedules. We believe our method of determining GSA schedule value is based on reasonable estimates and assumptions. However, there can be no assurance that our methodology accurately estimates GSA schedule value. Estimates of future revenue included in backlog and GSA schedule value are not necessarily precise, and the receipt and timing of any of this revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. We may never realize the revenue on programs included in backlog and GSA schedule value. 19 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Security breaches in classified government systems could adversely affect our business. Many of the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for federal government customers. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits that we have for errors and omissions insurance, which generally do not exceed $1 million per task order awarded. Our business is dependent upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. Many of our federal government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with federal government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if our employees who hold security clearances terminate employment with us, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-compete on expiring contracts or follow-on task orders. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations and failing to disclose unauthorized activities to us. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our customers’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses. International sales may pose greater risks than domestic business. Although sales to foreign customers are not currently substantial for our Company, we intend to seek additional business in several foreign countries. This international business may pose greater risks than our business in the United States because in some countries there is increased potential for changes in economic, legal and political environments. Additional financial and legal risks include foreign exchange rates, differing legal systems and contracting processes and United States arms export control regulations and policies governing our ability to supply foreign customers. Although these risks have not had any material impact on our financial results in the past, no assurance can be given that such risks will not materially affect our operating results in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your acquisition price. Prior to June 27, 2002, there was no public market for our common stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could affect your ability to sell your shares. 20 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Additionally, the price of our common stock may fluctuate widely depending upon many factors, including: • our perceived prospects; • the prospects of the information technology and government contracting industries in general; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • changes in general valuations for information technology and technical services companies; and • changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Armed hostilities that were initiated as a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks and future actions by the federal government may lead to further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and such developments could cause instability in global financial markets. All of these factors may increase the volatility of, or decrease our stock price and could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. As a result, our common stock may trade at prices significantly below your acquisition price, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the event you choose to sell your shares. Mr. Soin, who is our founder, Chairman of our board of directors and Chief Executive Officer, has a significant ownership interest in our Company. Mr. Soin owns or controls approximately 37% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Soin has significant influence on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock. Mr. Soin’s voting power may have the effect of discouraging transactions involving an actual or a potential change of control of our Company, regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. We currently conduct, and in the past we have conducted, business with entities that are controlled by or otherwise related to Mr. Soin. The interests of Mr. Soin may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We have contracts with entities that are owned or controlled by, or otherwise affiliated with, Mr. Soin. From time to time, we enter into subcontracting relationships with other government contractors that are affiliated with Mr. Soin. While we believe that the terms and conditions of these agreements with entities owned or controlled by, or otherwise affiliated with, Mr. Soin reflect or will reflect prevailing market conditions, we cannot assure you that they are or will be as favorable to us as the terms and conditions that might be negotiated by independent parties on an arm’s-length basis. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for sale by Mr. Soin, which could affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 15,219,231 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Of these shares, Mr. Soin beneficially owned 5,675,819 shares, which includes outstanding options to purchase 21,000 shares, or approximately 37%, of our outstanding common stock, all of which are eligible for sale by Mr. Soin under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, subject to the volume restriction and manner of sale requirements imposed on affiliates. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of shares of our common stock by Mr. Soin, or the availability of such shares for sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. We believe that sales of 21 Table of Contents MTC TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES substantial numbers of shares of our common stock by Mr. Soin, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which could make it difficult or impossible for us to sell additional shares of common stock when we need to raise capital. Under a registration rights agreement, Mr. Soin has “demand” registration rights as well as “piggyback” registration rights in connection with future offerings of our common stock. “Demand” registration rights will allow Mr. Soin to cause us to file a registration statement registering all or some of his shares. “Piggyback” registration rights will require us to provide notice to Mr. Soin if we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act and grant him the right to include his shares in our registration statement. If Mr. Soin exercises these registration rights, he will be able to sell his shares included on a registration statement without the volume restriction and manner of sale requirements imposed on affiliates under Rule 144. Provisions in our charter documents could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors in any one year and thus may make it difficult to change the composition of management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; • stagger our board of directors, making it more difficult to elect a majority of the directors on our board and preventing our directors from being removed without cause; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • require that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting the Company from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 