RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares or ADSs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to Gold Fields. However, there may be additional risks that Gold Fields does not currently know of or that Gold Fields currently deems immaterial based on the information available to it. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Changes in the market price for gold, and to a lesser extent copper, which in the past have fluctuated widely, affect the profitability of Gold Fields’ operations and the cash flows generated by those operations. Substantially all of Gold Fields’ revenues are derived from the sale of gold. Historically, the market price for gold has fluctuated widely and has been affected by numerous factors over which Gold Fields has no control, including: • the demand for gold for industrial uses and for use in jewelry; • actual, expected or rumored purchases and sales of gold bullion holdings by central banks or other large gold bullion holders or dealers; • speculative trading activities in gold; • the overall level of forward sales by other gold producers; • the overall level and cost of production by other gold producers; • international or regional political and economic events or trends; • the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar (the currency in which gold prices generally are quoted) and of other currencies; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; and • interest rates. In addition, the current demand for and supply of gold affects the price of gold, but not necessarily in the same manner as current demand and supply affect the prices of other commodities. Since the potential supply of gold is large relative to mine production in any given year, normal variations in current production will not necessarily have a significant effect on the supply of gold or the gold price. Central banks, financial institutions and individuals historically have held large amounts of gold as a store of value, and production in any given year historically has constituted a small portion of the total potential supply of gold. Historically, gold has tended to retain its value in relative terms against basic goods in times of inflation and monetary crisis. Pursuant to a gold sales agreement entered into by 15 European central banks in September 2009, individual banks may sell up to 400 tons of gold per year and the International Monetary Fund indicated that it may sell up to approximately 400 tons of gold and has already sold approximately 300 tons of gold. However, the effect on the market of these or any other gold sales is unclear. In fiscal 2010, the average London afternoon fixing price for gold was U.S.$1,089 per ounce. For the same period, the high was U.S.$1,261 per ounce and the low was U.S.$909 per ounce. On November 26, 2010, the London afternoon fixing price for gold was U.S.$1,355 per ounce. While the aggregate effect of these factors is impossible for Gold Fields to predict, if gold prices fall below the amount it costs Gold Fields to produce gold and remain at such levels for any sustained period, Gold Fields may experience losses and may be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its operations and/or reduce capital expenditures. In addition, Gold Fields might not be able to recover any losses it may incur during that period. 15 Table of Contents Copper accounts for a significant proportion of the revenues at Gold Fields’ Cerro Corona mine, although copper is not a major element of Gold Fields’ overall revenues. A decline in copper prices, which have also fluctuated widely, could adversely affect the revenues and cashflows from the Cerro Corona mine. Because Gold Fields does not use commodity or derivative instruments to protect against low gold prices with respect to its production, Gold Fields may be impacted by any significant decline in the price of gold. As a general rule, Gold Fields sells its gold production at market prices. Gold Fields generally does not enter into forward sales, derivatives or other hedging arrangements to establish a price in advance for the sale of its future gold production. In general, hedging reduces the risk of exposure to volatility in the gold price. Hedging also enables a gold producer to fix a future price for hedged gold that generally is higher than the then current spot price. To the extent that Gold Fields does not generally use commodity or derivative instruments, it will not be protected against declines in the gold price, which could lead to reduced revenue in respect of gold production that is not hedged. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Gold Fields’ reserves are estimates based on a number of assumptions, any changes to which may require Gold Fields to lower its estimated reserves. The ore reserves stated in this annual report represent the amount of gold and copper that Gold Fields estimated, as of June 30, 2010, could be mined, processed and sold at prices sufficient to recover Gold Fields’ estimated future total costs of production, remaining investment and anticipated additional capital expenditures. Ore reserves are estimates based on assumptions regarding, among other things, Gold Fields’ costs, expenditures, prices and exchange rates, which may prove inaccurate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond Gold Fields’ control. Gold Fields is in the process of changing its year-end from June to December to align with the company’s peers in the gold mining industry. As a result, the compilation of the annual Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Supplement has not been prepared for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and will only be published with the Group’s Annual Report for the period ending December 31, 2010. Consequently, the June 30, 2010 Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves primarily reflect mining depletion of last year’s figures except where material differences were encountered for technical or economic reasons, in which case suitably revised models and schedules were implemented. Therefore, the information regarding the Group’s ore reserves and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 has not been prepared on the same basis as the ore reserves information for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008; and may not be directly comparable to that reported by the Group in prior years. For further information about the methodology used to prepare the ore reserves information for the fiscal year ended June 30 2010, see “Information on the Company—Reserves of Gold Fields as of June 30, 2010—Methodology”. In the event that Gold Fields revises any of its assumptions that underlie its ore reserves reporting in an adverse manner, Gold Fields may need to revise its ore reserves downwards. In particular, if Gold Fields’ production costs or capital expenditures increase, if gold or copper prices decrease or if the Rand or Australian dollar strengthens against the U.S. dollar, a portion of Gold Fields’ ore reserves may become uneconomical to recover, forcing Gold Fields to lower its estimated reserves. See “Information on the Company—Reserves of Gold Fields as of June 30, 2010”. To the extent that Gold Fields seeks to expand through acquisitions, it may experience problems in executing acquisitions or managing and integrating the acquisitions with its existing operations. In order to expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may seek to make acquisitions of selected precious metal producing and/or exploration companies or assets. Gold Fields’ success at making any acquisitions will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • negotiating acceptable terms with the seller of the business or equities to be acquired; • obtaining approval from regulatory authorities; 16 Table of Contents • assimilating the operations of an acquired business in a timely and efficient manner; • maintaining Gold Fields’ financial and strategic focus while integrating the acquired business; • implementing Gold Fields’ standards, controls, procedures and policies at the acquired business; and • operating in a new environment to the extent that Gold Fields makes an acquisition outside of markets in which it has previously operated. There can be no assurance that any acquisition will achieve the results intended. Any problems experienced by Gold Fields in connection with an acquisition as a result of one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent that Gold Fields seeks to expand through its exploration program, it may experience problems associated with mineral exploration or developing mining projects. In order to expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may rely on its exploration program for gold and other metals associated with gold as well as its ability to develop mining projects. Exploration for gold and other metals associated with gold is speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Any exploration program entails risks relating to the location of economic orebodies, the development of appropriate extractive processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and regulatory approvals and the construction of mining and processing facilities at the mining site. Gold Fields’ exploration efforts may not result in the discovery of gold or other metals associated with gold and any mineralization discovered may not result in an increase of Gold Fields’ reserves. If orebodies are developed, it can take a number of years and substantial expenditures from the initial phases of drilling until production commences, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Gold Fields’ exploration program may not result in the replacement of current production with new reserves or result in any new commercial mining operations. In addition, to the extent Gold Fields participates in the development of a project through a joint venture or any other multi-party commercial structure, there could be disagreements, legal or otherwise, or divergent interests or goals amongst the parties, which could jeopardize the success of the project. Furthermore, significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from exploration efforts. There is no assurance that Gold Fields will have, or be able to raise, the required funds to engage in these activities or to meet its obligations with respect to the exploration properties in which it has or may acquire an interest. In addition, there can be no assurance that investments made in such projects may not cause a reduction in expenditure for existing projects or other opportunities, any of which may have a negative impact on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Due to the nature of mining and the type of gold mines it operates, Gold Fields faces a material risk of liability, delays and increased production costs from environmental and industrial accidents and pollution. The business of gold mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards and industrial and mining accidents. In particular, hazards associated with Gold Fields’ underground mining operations include: • rock bursts; • seismic events, particularly at the Driefontein, Kloof and South Deep operations; • underground fires and explosions, including those caused by flammable gas or in connection with blasting; • cave-ins or gravity falls of ground; • discharges of gases and toxic substances; • releases of radioactivity; 17 Table of Contents • flooding; • electrocution; • falling from height; • accidents related to the presence of mobile machinery, including shaft conveyances and elevators; • ground and surface water pollution, including as a result of potential spillage or seepage from tailings dams; • sinkhole formation and ground subsidence; • human error; and • other accidents and conditions resulting from drilling, blasting and removing and processing material from an underground mine. Gold Fields’ South African operations may be more susceptible to certain of these risks because significant amounts of mining occur at deep levels of up to 3,500 meters below the surface. Hazards associated with Gold Fields’ open pit mining operations include: • flooding of the open pit; • collapses of the open pit walls; • electrocution; • accidents associated with the operation of large open pit mining and rock transportation equipment; • accidents related to the presence of other mobile machinery; • accidents associated with the preparation and ignition of large-scale open pit blasting operations; • ground and surface water pollution, including as a result of potential spillage or seepage from tailings dams; • production disruptions due to weather; and • hazards associated with heap leach processing, such as groundwater and waterway contamination. Hazards associated with Gold Fields’ rock dump and production stockpile mining and tailings disposal include: • accidents associated with operating a rock dump and production stockpile and rock transportation equipment; • production disruptions due to weather; • sinkhole formation and ground subsidence; • collapses of tailings dams; and • ground and surface water pollution, on and off site. Gold Fields is at risk of experiencing any and all of these environmental or other industrial hazards. The occurrence of any of these hazards could delay or halt production, increase production costs and result in liability for Gold Fields. Gold Fields may also be subject to actions by labor groups or other interested parties who object to perceived or actual conditions at the mines or to the perceived or actual environmental impact of the mines. These actions may delay or halt production or may create negative publicity related to Gold Fields. 18 Table of Contents Ageing infrastructure at the South African operations may cause breakdowns and unplanned stoppages, which may result in production delays, increased costs and industrial accidents. Deep level gold mining shafts are usually designed with a lifespan of 25 to 30 years. Vertical shafts consist of large quantities of infrastructure steelwork for guiding conveyances and services such as high and low tension electric cables, air and water pipe columns. Maintaining this infrastructure requires skilled human resources, capital allocation, management and planned maintenance. Once a shaft has reached the end of its intended lifespan, more than normal maintenance and care is required to maintain it. Most of the operating shafts at Kloof, Driefontein, Beatrix and the South Shaft at South Deep are more than 30 years old. Although Gold Fields has a comprehensive maintenance strategy in place, incidents resulting in production delays, increased costs or industrial accidents may occur. Such incidents may have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. If Gold Fields experiences losses of senior management or is unable to hire and retain sufficient technically skilled employees, its business may be materially and adversely affected. Gold Fields’ ability to operate or expand effectively depends largely on the experience, skills and performance of its senior management team. There can be no certainty that the services of its senior management will continue to be available to Gold Fields. Any senior management departures could adversely affect Gold Fields’ efficiency, control over operations and results of operations. During fiscal 2009, Gold Fields restructured its operations into four regions: South Africa, West Africa, South America and Australasia. See “Information on the Company—Strategy—Regional Delivery Model”. An important element of this restructuring was bolstering the technical skills base of each of the four regional management teams to provide additional resources and to provide for succession planning. The mining industry, including Gold Fields, continues to experience a global shortage of technically skilled employees. Gold Fields may be unable to hire or retain appropriate technically skilled employees or other management personnel, or may have to pay higher levels of remuneration than it currently intends in order to do so. If Gold Fields is not able to hire and retain appropriate management and technically skilled personnel, or if there are not sufficient succession plans in place, Gold Fields may not achieve the intended benefits of its regional restructuring, which could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial position. Because gold is generally sold in U.S. dollars, while most of Gold Fields’ production costs are in Rand, Australian dollars and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, Gold Fields’ operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed by an appreciation in the value of these non-U.S. dollar currencies. Gold is sold throughout the world principally in U.S. dollars, but Gold Fields’ costs of production are incurred principally in Rand, Australian dollars and other non-U.S. dollar currencies. As a result, any significant and sustained appreciation of any of these non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar may materially increase Gold Fields’ costs in U.S. dollar terms, which could adversely affect Gold Fields’ operating results and financial condition. Economic, political or social instability in the countries or regions where Gold Fields operates may have an adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. The majority of Gold Fields’ production is in South Africa. Gold Fields has significant operations in Ghana, Australia and Peru. As a result, changes or instability to the economic, political or social environment in South Africa or in any of these other countries or in neighboring countries could affect an investment in Gold Fields. Several of these countries have, or have had in the recent past, high levels of inflation. Continued or increased inflation in any of the countries where it operates could increase the prices Gold Fields pays for products and services, including wages for its employees and power costs, which if not offset by increased gold prices or currency devaluations could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Over the past few years, governments, communities, non-governmental organizations and trade unions in several jurisdictions have sought and, in some cases, have implemented greater cost imposts on the mining industry, including through the imposition of additional taxes and royalties. These trends are evident in the cost of electricity and other levies imposed by governments in many of the countries in which Gold Fields operates. The impositions of additional operational costs, taxes or royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Further, the South African government has implemented laws aimed at alleviating and redressing the disadvantages suffered by citizens under previous governments. In the future, the South African government may implement new laws and policies, which in turn may have an adverse impact on Gold Fields’ operations and financial results. In recent years, South Africa has continued to experience high levels of crime and unemployment. These problems may have impacted fixed inward investment into South Africa and have prompted emigration of skilled workers. As a result, Gold Fields may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees. National elections took place in South Africa in April 2009. Since that time, numerous public statements have been made about the nationalization of South African mines. While there is currently no formalized plan by the government to nationalize South African mines, these comments may have negatively affected investors’ perceptions of South Africa. There has been regional political and economic instability in certain of the countries surrounding South Africa. Any similar political or economic instability in South Africa could have a negative impact on Gold Fields’ ability to manage and operate its South African operations. There has been local opposition to mine development projects in Peru. Notwithstanding the fact that Gold Fields was complying with the commitments it had made to the local communities, in mid-October 2006, there was an illegal blockade of the access road to the Cerro Corona site resulting in a temporary suspension of construction activities at the site for 30 days. The blockade was accompanied by demands for increased employment from local communities and increased use of local contractors. In addition, the Cerro Corona site is located near the Yanacocha mine, which is operated by another company. The Yanacocha mine has also been the subject of local protests, including ones that blocked the road between the Yanacocha mine complex and the City of Cajamarca, which also affected access to the Cerro Corona site. There have also been protests against a Gold Fields joint venture exploration project in Peru. If Gold Fields experiences further opposition in connection with its operations in Peru, or if protests aimed at other mining operations affect operations at Cerro Corona, it could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations. Regional elections took place in Peru in late calendar 2010 and national elections will take place in Peru in early 2011. It is not certain what, if any, political or economic impact the elections will have on Peru generally, or on Gold Fields specifically. As a result of its disposal of its operations in Venezuela to Rusoro Mining Limited, or Rusoro, Gold Fields holds a stake in Rusoro with a book value of $18 million and a market value of $31 million as of June 30, 2010 and is therefore indirectly exposed to the risks of operating in Venezuela. Venezuela has experienced intense political and social turmoil in recent years and there can be no guarantee that Gold Fields’ stake in Rusoro will not lose some or all of its value. Some of Gold Fields’ power suppliers have forced it to halt or curtail activities at its mines, due to severe power disruptions. Power stoppages, fluctuations and power cost increases may adversely affect Gold Fields’ results of operations and its financial condition. In South Africa, Gold Fields’ mining operations are dependent upon electrical power generated by the State utility, Eskom. Eskom holds a monopoly on power supply in the South African market. As a result of an increase 20 Table of Contents in demand exceeding available generating capacity, South Africa has been subject to disruptions in electrical power supply. On January 24, 2008, Gold Fields was forced to suspend all mining activity at its South African operations for several days, due to Eskom declaring force majeure and advising its key industrial consumers, including Gold Fields, that it could not guarantee the supply of electricity, forcing Gold Fields to reduce consumption to the minimum possible level. Half of Gold Fields’ typical electrical consumption is required simply to pump, ventilate and refrigerate its South African operations. Since March 2008, the total power available to Gold Fields’ South African mines has been sufficient for the planned mining operations. However, there can be no assurance that power supplies can or will be maintained at this level. The Department of Energy has yet to finalize its power conservation program, including the rules regarding baseline adjustments and load growth. Eskom applied to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa, or NERSA, for a 35% average tariff increase on each of April 1, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and NERSA granted average increases of 24.8%, 25.8% and 25.9%, respectively. Gold Fields may pay higher rates than the average as an industrial user and it expects further significant additional increases during the next several years as Eskom embarks on an electricity generation capacity expansion program. Should Gold Fields experience any additional power outages or further power tariff increases or usage constraints, then its financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. In fiscal 2010, power costs made up 12.2% of the costs of production at the South African operations. See “Information on the Company—Gold Fields’ Mining Operations—Driefontein Operation—Mining”. Gold Fields’ power needs in South Africa are increasing as it builds up production at its South Deep mine. South Deep has requested an additional allocation from Eskom, which has informally indicated that the additional requested capacity should be made available. If a power conservation program is implemented, Gold Fields expects that the power allocations of each of its operations will be tradable, allowing Gold Fields to shift power usage from one mine to another as necessary. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will receive all of the power it needs or that the power conservation program will be implemented as currently conceived. Any failure to receive power allocation or divergence between the power conservation that is ultimately implemented and the one that is currently conceived could have an adverse effect on Gold Fields’ ability to develop South Deep. Gold Fields Ghana Limited, or Gold Fields Ghana, among other mining companies in Ghana, was asked by the state electricity supplier, the Volta River Authority, or VRA, in August 2006 to significantly reduce its electricity demand largely because of the low water reservoir level of the VRA’s Akosombo generating facility and concerns about its ability to meet future supply and demand at present consumption levels. Since then, the power supply has stabilized and the tariff has been reduced. However, the gold mining industry in Ghana has been notified by the VRA of new rates of between U.S.$0.12 and U.S.$0.165 per kilowatt hour under which the services of the VRA and the services of the transmission and distribution utility are to be billed separately. These new rates have been billed to both the Tarkwa and Damang mines. Gold Fields Ghana is a bulk permit, holder, which allows it to negotiate rates with the VRA and Gold Fields Ghana began such negotiations in August 2010. There can be no assurance that the VRA will agree to a satisfactory rate. Although the VRA did not impose any power cuts, frequent power interruptions occurred. The national utility remains reliant on hydropower for approximately 50% of its generation and there can be no assurance that there will not be new disruptions to the electricity supply in the future. Actual and potential supply chain shortages and increases in the prices of production inputs may have an adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. Gold Fields’ results of operations may be affected by the availability and pricing of raw materials and other essential production inputs, including fuel, steel and cyanide and other reagents. The price of raw materials may be substantially affected by changes in global supply and demand, along with weather conditions, governmental controls and other factors. A sustained interruption in the supply of any of these materials would require Gold Fields to find acceptable substitute suppliers and could require it to pay higher prices for such materials. Any significant increase in the prices of these materials will increase the Company’s operating costs and affect production considerations. 21 Table of Contents Giant tires, of the type used by Gold Fields for its large earthmoving equipment and trucks, are in short supply, and prices have risen recently and may continue to rise in the future. This shortage of tires for earthmoving vehicles is causing mining companies to review operating practices, to seek additional methods of preserving tire life and to examine alternative sources of tire supply. To the extent that Gold Fields is unable to procure an adequate supply of these tires, it may have to alter its mining plans, especially at its open pit operations, which could reduce its gold production and have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy potential claims. Gold Fields may become subject to liability for pollution, occupational illnesses or other hazards against which it has not insured, cannot insure or has insufficiently insured, including those in respect of past mining activities. Gold Fields’ existing property and liability insurance contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. Should Gold Fields suffer a major loss, future earnings could be affected. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future, Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against Gold Fields, including, but not limited to, claims for environmental or industrial accidents, occupational illnesses or pollution. Gold Fields’ financial flexibility could be materially constrained by South African exchange control regulations. South Africa’s exchange control regulations restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia, and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area. Transactions between South African residents (including companies) and non-residents of the Common Monetary Area, or CMA, are subject to exchange controls enforced by the South African Reserve Bank, or SARB. As a result, Gold Fields’ ability to raise and deploy capital outside the CMA is restricted. Under South African exchange control regulations, Gold Fields must obtain approval from the SARB regarding any capital raising involving a currency other than the Rand. In connection with its approval, it is possible that the SARB may impose conditions on Gold Fields’ use of the proceeds of any such capital raising, such as limits on Gold Fields’ ability to retain the proceeds of the capital raising outside South Africa or requirements that Gold Fields seek further SARB approval prior to applying any such funds to a specific use. These restrictions could hinder Gold Fields’ financial and strategic flexibility, particularly its ability to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and exploration projects outside South Africa. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Exchange Controls”. An acquisition of shares in or assets of a South African company by a non-South African purchaser that is subject to exchange control regulations may not be granted regulatory approval. In some circumstances, potential acquisitions of shares in or assets of South African companies by non-South African resident purchasers are subject to review by the SARB pursuant to South African exchange control regulations. In 2000, the South African Treasury, or the Treasury, refused to approve an acquisition of Gold Fields by Franco-Nevada Mining Corporation Limited, a Canadian mining company. The Treasury may refuse to approve similar proposed acquisitions of Gold Fields in the future. As a result, Gold Fields’ management may be limited in its ability to consider strategic options and Gold Fields’ shareholders may not be able to realize the premium over the current trading price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares which they might otherwise receive upon such an acquisition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Exchange Controls”. Gold Fields’ operations and profits may be adversely affected by new and existing labor laws and increased union activity. Gold Fields may be affected by certain labor laws that impose obligations regarding worker rights. For example, laws in South Africa impose monetary penalties for non-compliance with the administrative and the 22 Table of Contents reporting requirements in respect of affirmative action policies, while Ghanaian law contains broad provisions requiring mining companies to recruit and train Ghanaian personnel and to use the services of Ghanaian companies. In addition, there has been an increase in union activity in many of the countries in which Gold Fields operates, which may result in new labor laws or amendments to existing labor laws that impose additional obligations on Gold Fields or grant additional rights to workers. For example, the Australian federal government has recently introduced a new industrial relations system that includes “good faith bargaining” obligations for employers, fewer restrictions on the content of collective agreements and an enhanced role for union officials as bargaining representatives, parties to agreements and participants in dispute resolution. Existing labor laws and any new or amended labor laws may increase Gold Fields’ labor costs and have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Greater union activity may also result in more frequent industrial action and impact labor negotiations. A number of unions in various industries have recently gone on strike in South Africa causing work stoppages and production losses. Negotiations with South African mining unions that concluded in July 2009 resulted in above-inflation wage increases ranging from 9.0% to 10.2%, depending upon the category of employee. Wages and related labor costs accounted for approximately 54% of the Group’s total cost of sales in South Africa in fiscal 2010. However, the unions have indicated that they may continue to take industrial action to protest a variety of issues. On November 12, 2010, the local branch of the National Union of Mineworkers declared a protected strike at the South Deep operation which ended on November 22, 2010. In Ghana, Gold Fields concluded wage negotiations for 2010 and signed a three year wage deal with the Ghana Mineworkers Union, or the GMWU, to increase minimum wages with 10% per year for 2010, 2011 and 2012, as well as adjustments to other benefits such as housing, schooling and funeral allowances. However, labor unions have recently undertaken strikes and “go slow” actions against other mining companies. If the Group is unable to implement cost cutting measures, including through any planned reduction in its workforce, or increase production levels to offset any increases in labor costs or production losses, these costs and losses could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields may suffer adverse consequences as a result of its reliance on outside contractors to conduct some of its operations. A significant portion of Gold Fields’ operations in Australia and Peru, and at the Damang operation in Ghana, and a smaller portion elsewhere, are currently conducted by outside contractors. As a result, Gold Fields’ operations at those sites are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside Gold Fields’ control, including: • negotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms; • the inability to replace a contractor and its operating equipment in the event that either party terminates the agreement; • reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor; • failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement with Gold Fields; • interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events; • failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for such compliance; and • problems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor unrest or other employment issues. 23 Table of Contents In addition, Gold Fields may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of its contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Ghana”, “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Australia” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Peru”. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may adversely affect Gold Fields’ operations. Energy is a significant input to Gold Fields’ mining and processing operations, with its principal energy sources being electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. There is a substantial weight of scientific evidence concluding that carbon emissions from fossil fuel-based energy consumption contribute to global warming, greenhouse effects and climate change. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change that may restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which Gold Fields operates. For example, the December 1997 Kyoto Protocol established a set of greenhouse gas emission targets for developed countries that have ratified the Protocol, including South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru. The South African government intends to publish a white paper on a climate change policy late in 2010 which may recommend the introduction of a trading scheme for greenhouse gas emissions or an increase in carbon taxes The Australian Government’s plan of action on climate change includes the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme and a mandatory renewable energy target of 20%, and will be considered for implementation after 2012. Elsewhere, there is current and emerging climate change regulation that will affect energy prices, demand and margins for carbon intensive products. Unless and until this legislation is enacted and its terms are made known, Gold Fields cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on its financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Additional regulation may result in increased compliance costs and increased risk of litigation. From a medium- and long-term perspective, Gold Fields is likely to see an increase in costs relating to its energy-intensive assets and assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of regulatory initiatives in countries in which it operates. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and may impact Gold Fields’ operations directly or by affecting its suppliers or customers. Insurance premiums may increase and the Company’s position relative to industry competitors may change. Inconsistency of regulations particularly between developed and developing countries may affect Gold Fields’ decision to pursue opportunities in certain countries and also may affect its costs of operations. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which Gold Fields operates. The potential physical impacts of climate change on Gold Fields’ operations are highly uncertain and may differ across geographies. They may include changes in rainfall patterns and intensities, water shortages, extreme weather conditions and changing temperatures. Flooding could disrupt mining, processing and transportation, and result in increased health and safety risks. Reduced rainfall could result in electricity supply shortages in certain countries where Gold Fields operates and extreme weather conditions may negatively impact Gold Fields’ workforce. These effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of Gold Fields’ operations. Illegal mining and theft occurs on Gold Fields’ properties, is difficult to control, can disrupt Gold Fields’ business and can expose Gold Fields to liability. A number of Gold Fields’ properties have experienced illegal mining activities and theft. The activities of the illegal miners could cause pollution or other damage to Gold Fields’ properties including underground fires, or personal injury or death, for which Gold Fields could potentially be held responsible. Illegal mining could result in depletion of mineral deposits, potentially making the future mining of such deposits uneconomic. The 24 Table of Contents presence of illegal miners could lead to project delays and disputes regarding the development or operation of commercial gold deposits, particularly in Ghana. Illegal mining and theft, which may include that engaged in by Gold Fields employees and/or contractors, could also result in lost gold reserves, mine stoppages, and have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ financial condition or results of operations. HIV/AIDS poses risks to Gold Fields in terms of lost productivity and increased costs. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa poses risks to Gold Fields in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and other costs. Management has recently estimated that approximately 18% of Gold Fields’ workforce in South Africa is infected with HIV. Increasingly, Gold Fields is seeing an adverse impact of HIV/AIDS on its affected employees similar to that experienced by other companies in the South African mining sector, evidenced by increased absenteeism and reduced productivity compared to that of non-HIV infected employees. Compounding this is the concomitant infections with tuberculosis that can accompany HIV illness, particularly the end stages, and causes additional healthcare-related costs. HIV/AIDS remains an important focus for Gold Fields and Gold Fields will continue its extensive intervention campaigns. However, the potential impact of HIV/AIDS on Gold Fields’ South African operations and financial condition is large. Factors influencing the impact of HIV/AIDS include the incidence of HIV infection among Gold Fields’ employees and the surrounding community, the impact on employees’ productivity, treatment costs and other costs. Most of these factors are beyond Gold Fields’ control. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Health and Safety—Health—HIV/AIDS Program”. Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa are subject to environmental and health and safety regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ South African operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations including, for example, those relating to waste treatment, emissions and disposal, and must comply with permits or standards governing, among other things, tailings dams and waste disposal areas, water consumption, air emissions and water discharges. Gold Fields may in the future incur significant costs to comply with the South African environmental requirements imposed under existing or new legislation, regulations or permit requirements or to comply with changes in existing laws and regulations or the manner in which they are applied. Gold Fields may also be subject to litigation and other costs as a result of environmental rights granted to individuals under South Africa’s Constitution or other sources of rights. These costs could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Environmental”. Gold Fields’ South African operations are also subject to various health and safety laws and regulations that impose various duties on Gold Fields’ mines while granting the authorities broad powers to, among other things, close unsafe mines and order corrective action relating to health and safety matters. Further, certain targets were set by the Mine Health and Safety Council, a body consisting of representatives from the government, mining companies and unions, for the reduction of accidents, noise and silicosis to be achieved by 2013. If a mine fails to achieve these targets, the Mine Health and Safety Inspectorate, or the MHSI, could potentially order that operations be halted due to overexposure of employees. A number of accidents, many of which resulted in fatalities, have recently occurred at various mining operations in South Africa, including at some of Gold Fields’ operations. In October 2007, the DMR commenced an occupational health and safety audit at all mines. Gold Fields’ South African operations have received their results from the legal compliance audit and the operations have implemented action plans to address any issues raised. However, there can be no assurance that further results of the occupational health and safety audit will not result in the introduction of more stringent safety regulations, which could result in restrictions on Gold Fields’ ability to conduct its mining operations and/or impose additional costs. Regardless of the consequences of the audit or improved health and safety programs, there can be no assurance that the unions will not take industrial action that could lead to losses in Gold Fields’ production. The DMR can and does issue instructions following safety incidents or accidents to partially or completely halt operations at affected mines. Moreover, it is Gold 25 Table of Contents Fields’ policy to halt production at its operations when serious accidents occur in order to rectify dangerous situations and, if necessary, retrain workers. Any additional stoppages in production, or increased costs, could have an adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. In April 2009, the Mine Health and Safety Amendment Bill became law. As a result, Gold Fields is now subject to more stringent regulations regarding mine health and safety and may be subject to an increased risk of prosecution for industrial accidents as well as greater penalties and fines for non-compliance. Further, any changes to the health and safety laws which increase the burden of compliance or the penalties for non-compliance may cause Gold Fields to incur further significant costs. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Health and Safety”. Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa are subject to water use licenses, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Under South African law, Gold Fields’ South African operations are subject to water use licenses that govern each operation’s water usage and that require, among other things, that mining operations achieve and maintain certain water quality limits regarding all water discharges. The Kloof operation was issued a water use license in December 2008 that requires it to achieve compliance with these limits by mid-2012. The Driefontein operation was also recently issued a water use license. While there has been a delay in processing the water license application at South Deep, which was submitted within the applicable time limits, Gold Fields has engaged the Department of Water Affairs, or the DWA, to address these issues. South Deep is currently discharging water in accordance with its existing water permit. The DWA advised Beatrix, which had pre-existing water permits of indefinite length, that its current water usage remains authorized and it need not apply for a new license. However, Beatrix has nevertheless proactively begun the water use license application process. Gold Fields’ operations have been generally in compliance with pre-existing water permits. Gold Fields is reviewing and is in ongoing discussion with DWA in relation to the new water use licenses. Gold Fields is also reviewing and investigating a water treatment strategy that will, if successfully implemented, position Gold Fields favorably with regard to achieving the conditions of the new water use licenses. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will achieve such compliance within the required timeframe due primarily to the associated regulatory approval processes and commercial agreements that are required for the water treatment strategy. Gold Fields is currently in discussions with the DWA to amend the Kloof license to extend the deadline for compliance beyond mid-2012 or to revise the parameters for compliance. Gold Fields is also exploring avenues to clarify the meaning of the conditions imposed by the Driefontein license. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Environmental”. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will receive such an extension or clarification. Gold Fields expects to make significant expenditure to achieve and maintain compliance with the license requirements at each South African operation. Any failure on Gold Fields’ part to achieve or maintain compliance with the requirements of these licenses with respect to any of its operations could result in Gold Fields being subject to substantial claims, penalties, fees and expenses; significant delays in operations; or the loss of the relevant water use license, which could curtail or halt production at the affected operation. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields’ mineral rights in South Africa are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act No. 28 of 2002, or the MPRDA, came into effect on May 1, 2004, together with the implementation of a broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter, or the Mining Charter, for effecting entry of historically disadvantaged South Africans, or HDSAs, into the mining industry. Among other things, the Mining Charter requires (i) each mining company to achieve a 15% HDSA ownership of mining assets within five years of the Mining Charter coming into effect and a 26% HDSA ownership of mining assets within 10 years of the Mining Charter coming into effect, (ii) the mining industry as a whole to agree to assist HDSA companies in securing finance to fund participation in an amount of Rand 100 26 Table of Contents billion over the first five years and (iii) mining companies to spell out plans for achieving employment equity at management level with a view to achieving a baseline of 40% HDSA participation in management and achieving a baseline of 10% participation by women in the mining industry, in each case within five years. Following a review, the DMR recently amended the Mining Charter and the Revised Mining Charter was released on September 13, 2010. The requirement under the Mining Charter for mining entities to achieve a 26% HDSA ownership of mining assets by the year 2014 has been retained. Amendments to the Mining Charter in the Revised Mining Charter include, inter alia, the requirement by mining companies to (i) facilitate local beneficiation of mineral commodities; (ii) procure a minimum of 40% of capital goods, 70% of services and 50% of consumer goods from HDSA suppliers (i.e. suppliers of which a minimum of 25% + 1 vote of their share capital must be owned by HDSAs) by 2014. These targets will however be exclusive of non-discretionary procurement expenditure; (iii) ensure that multinational suppliers of capital goods contribute a minimum of 0.5% of their annual income generated from South African mining companies towards the socioeconomic development of South African communities into a social development fund from 2010; (iv) achieve a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation by 2014 at executive management (board) level, senior management (EXCO) level, core and critical skills, middle management level and junior management level; (v) invest up to 5% of annual payroll in essential skills development activities; and (vi) implement measures to improve the standards of housing and living conditions for mineworkers by converting or upgrading mineworkers’ hostels into family units, attaining an occupancy rate of one person per room and facilitating home ownership options for all mineworkers in consultation with organized labor, all of which must be achieved by 2014. In addition, mining companies are required to monitor and evaluate their compliance to the Revised Mining Charter, and must submit annual compliance reports to the DMR. The Scorecard for the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry attached to the Revised Mining Charter, or the Scorecard, makes provision for a phased-in approach for compliance with the above targets over the 5-year period ending in 2014. For measurement purposes, the Scorecard allocates various weightings to the different elements of the Revised Mining Charter. Failure to comply with the provisions of the Revised Mining Charter will amount to a breach of the MPRDA and may result in the cancellation or suspension of a mining company’s existing mining rights and may prevent Gold Fields’ South African operations from obtaining any new mining rights in South Africa. In accordance with the MPRDA, the DMR on April 29, 2009 published a Code of Good Practice for the Minerals Industry and the Housing and Living Conditions Standard for the Mining Industry, or the Code, relating to the socio-economic transformation of the mining industry. However, certain provisions of the Code appear to be inconsistent with the Mining Charter, or to go beyond the scope envisaged in the MPRDA. Various industry participants have been in discussions with the DMR regarding the scope and applicability of the Code. At the release of the Revised Mining Charter, the Director-General of the DMR indicated that the DMR will bring the Code in line with the Revised Mining Charter by the end of March 2011. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights—The MPRDA”. The acquisition by Mvelaphanda Resources Limited, or Mvela Resources, of a 15% beneficial interest in GFI Mining South Africa, or GFIMSA, for a cash consideration of Rand 4,139 million was effected in March 2009 to meet the requirement for a 15% HDSA ownership within five years of the Mining Charter coming into effect. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—General—Mvelaphanda Transaction”. In addition, Gold Fields has developed three further empowerment transactions which, when concluded by the end of the 2010 calendar year, will ensure that Gold Fields has met the 2014 Black Economic Empowerment, or BEE, equity ownership targets. These transactions include an Employee Share Option Plan, or ESOP, for 10.75% of GFIMSA; a broad-based BEE transaction for ten per cent of South Deep; and a broad-based BEE transaction for a further one per cent of GFIMSA, excluding South Deep. The three transactions have a combined value of approximately R2.4 billion and are expected to dilute existing shareholders by between two and three per cent. On November 2, 2010, the shareholders of Gold Fields approved these transactions at a General Meeting. On November 19, 2010, Gold Fields issued 13,525,394 shares to ESOP, housed and administered by the Gold Fields Thusano Share Trust, thereby commencing the implementation of the ESOP transaction. The 27 Table of Contents remaining empowerment transactions are expected to be concluded by the end of December 2010, subject to the satisfaction of certain suspensive conditions. See “Additional Information—Material Contracts—Black Economic Empowerment Transactions”. Gold Fields may also incur expenses to comply with the Revised Mining Charter’s requirements. Gold Fields is currently undertaking a detailed gap-analysis between the requirements of the Mining Charter and the Revised Mining Charter and will only thereafter be able to fully assess and quantify the impact of the Revised Mining Charter. The Mining Charter, the Revised Mining Charter and the Code are relatively new pieces of legislation and regulation and, therefore, remain untested and application of their requirements and compliance with them may still be subject to interpretation. Moreover, there is no guarantee that any steps Gold Fields has already taken or might take in the future will ensure the successful renewal of its existing mining rights, the retaining of new mining rights, the granting of further new mining rights or that the terms of renewals of its rights would not be significantly less favorable to Gold Fields than the terms of its current rights. Any further adjustment to the ownership structure of Gold Fields’ South African mining assets in order to meet the Revised Mining Charter’s requirements, including the above three initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on the value of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares or debt and failing to comply with the Revised Mining Charter’s requirements could subject Gold Fields to negative consequences, the scope of which have not yet been fully determined. Gold Fields’ operations in Ghana are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ Ghana operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. The Ghanaian environmental protection laws require, among other things, that Gold Fields register with the Ghanaian environmental authorities, and obtain environmental permits and certificates for the Ghana operations, as well as to rehabilitate land disturbed by mining operations. Gold Fields is required to secure estimated environmental rehabilitation costs in part by posting a reclamation bond. Gold Fields Ghana is required to post a reclamation bond and deposit a cash amount sufficient to cover 50% of the estimated rehabilitation costs for the two-year period after the date of the last estimate. Changes in the required method of calculation for these bonds or an unforeseen circumstance that produces unexpected costs may materially and adversely affect Gold Fields’ future environmental expenditures. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Ghana—Environmental”. Further, the Damang mine has only 12 to 18 months of government-approved capacity at its tailings storage and waste storage facilities. Any constraint on tailings or waste storage at Damang could curtail or halt production at Damang which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results or financial condition. Ghanaian health and safety regulations impose statutory duties on an owner of a mine to, among other things, take steps to ensure that the mine is managed and worked in a manner which provides for the safety and proper discipline of the mine workers. Additionally, Gold Fields is required, under the terms of its mining leases, to comply with the reasonable instructions of the relevant authorities for securing the health and safety of persons working in or connected with the mine. A violation of the health and safety regulations or a failure to comply with the reasonable instructions of the relevant authorities could lead to, among other things, a temporary shutdown of all or a portion of the mine, a loss of the right to mine or the imposition of costly compliance procedures and, in the case of a violation of the regulations relating to health and safety, constitutes an offense under Ghanaian law. If Ghanaian health and safety authorities require Gold Fields to shut down all or a portion of its mines or to implement costly compliance measures, whether pursuant to existing or new health and safety laws and regulations, such measures could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Ghana—Health and Safety”. Gold Fields, as the holder of the mining lease, has potential liability arising from injuries to, or deaths of, workers, including, in some cases, workers employed by its contractors. In Ghana, statutory workers’ compensation is not the exclusive means for workers to claim compensation. Gold Fields’ insurance for health and safety claims or the relevant workers’ compensation arrangements may not be adequate to meet the costs that may arise upon any future health and safety claims. 28 Table of Contents Gold Fields’ mineral rights in Ghana are currently subject to regulations, and may become subject to new regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. In Ghana, the ownership of land on which there are mineral deposits is separate from the ownership of the minerals. All minerals in their natural state in or upon any land or water are, under Ghanaian law, the property of Ghana and vested in the President on behalf of the people of Ghana. The new Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Act 703), or the Minerals and Mining Act, was passed by the Ghanaian Parliament in fiscal 2006. The Minerals and Mining Act repealed the Minerals and Mining Law, 1986 (PNDCL 153), as amended, or the Minerals and Mining Law, although, as regards existing mineral rights, the Minerals and Mining Law continues to apply to Gold Fields Ghana and Abosso Goldfields Limited, or Abosso, unless the minister responsible for mines provides otherwise by legislative instrument. Although the Minerals and Mining Act provides that it shall not have the effect of increasing the holder’s costs, or financial burden, for a period of five years, if in the future new amendments or provisions are passed under the Minerals and Mining Act or new laws are passed which impose significant new costs or burdens on Gold Fields’ abilities to mine in Ghana or to obtain new mining leases for properties on which deposits are identified, this could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Ghana—Mineral Rights”. Gold Fields’ operations in Australia are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ Australian operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Gold Fields may incur significant costs to comply with Australian environmental requirements imposed under existing or new legislation, regulations or permit requirements or to comply with changes in existing laws and regulations or the manner in which they are applied. These costs may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Australian mining companies are required by law to undertake rehabilitation works as part of their ongoing operation and the Gold Fields subsidiaries that hold its Australian operations provide unconditional bank- guaranteed performance bonds to the Western Australian government as security for the estimated costs. These bonds would not necessarily cover the actual cost of rehabilitation for events that were unforeseen at the time the bond was taken. Changes in the required method of calculation for these bond amounts, or an unforeseen circumstance that produces unexpected costs, may materially and adversely affect future environmental expenditures. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Environmental”. Gold Fields is obligated to provide and maintain a working environment that is safe for mine workers. A violation of the health and safety laws or a failure to comply with the instructions of the relevant health and safety authorities could lead to, among other things, a temporary shutdown of all or a portion of the mine, a loss of the right to mine or the imposition of costly compliance procedures and penalties (including imprisonment). If health and safety authorities require Gold Fields to shut down all or a portion of the mine or to implement costly compliance measures, whether pursuant to existing or new health and safety laws and regulations, such measures could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Health and Safety”. Some of Gold Fields’ tenements in Australia are subject to native title claims and include Aboriginal heritage sites, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Certain of Gold Fields’ tenements are subject to native title claims, and there are Aboriginal heritage sites located on certain of Gold Fields’ tenements. Native title and Aboriginal legislation protect the rights of Aboriginals in relation to the land in certain circumstances. Other tenements may become subject to native title claims if Gold Fields seeks to expand or otherwise change its interest in rights to those tenements. Native title 29 Table of Contents claims could require costly negotiations with the claimants or could affect Gold Fields’ access to or use of its tenements, and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Aboriginal heritage sites relate to distinct areas of land that have either ongoing ethnographic, archaeological or historic significance. Aboriginal heritage sites have been identified with respect to portions of some of Gold Fields’ Australian mining tenements. Additional Aboriginal heritage sites may be identified on the same or additional tenements. Gold Fields may, in the future, incur significant costs as a result of changes in the interpretation of, or new laws regarding, native title and Aboriginal heritage, which may result in a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Land Claims”. Gold Fields’ mineral rights in Peru are currently subject to regulations that may be subject to change, and may become subject to new regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ operations in Peru depend on mining concessions for exploration and exploitation works, obtained from the Geologic, Mining and Metallurgic Institute (Instituto Geológico Minero Metalúrgico), or the INGEMMET. In addition, Gold Fields’ operations in Peru depend on obtaining other administrative rights, such as provisional permits, from the Ministry of Energy and Mines, or the MEM, for exploration rights on the area of a claim, and beneficiation or processing concessions, obtained from the MEM, for treatment of mining ores. Under Peru’s current regulatory regime, mining concessions for the exploration and exploitation of minerals have an indefinite term, subject to compliance by the titleholder with the obligations set forth by the General Mining Act (Ley General de Minería), or the LGM. Compliance with such obligations is required to maintain the mining concessions in good standing. Among such obligations are the payment of an Annual Concession Fee (equivalent to U.S.$3 per hectare) and compliance with a minimum annual production target. Failure to pay the Annual Concession Fee for any two consecutive or non-consecutive years may result in the cancellation of the relevant mining concession. Gold Fields’ processing concession at Cerro Corona also has an indefinite term, subject to compliance with the obligations established by the LGM. Payment of an Annual Concession Fee (calculated on the production capacity of the processing plant) is also required to maintain the processing concession in good standing. Failure to pay the Annual Concession Fee for two consecutive or non-consecutive years may result in the cancellation of the processing concession. If the INGEMMET or the MEM revoke or cancel any of Gold Fields’ concessions, Gold Fields’ financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru—Concessions”. On June 24, 2004, the Peruvian Congress approved the Mining Royalty Law, which established a mining royalty that owners of mining concessions must pay to the Peruvian government for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources. This royalty is calculated on a sliding scale with rates ranging from 1% to 3% over the value of mineral concentrates based on international market prices. As provided by the Mining Royalty Law, effective since January 26, 2007, the Peruvian Tax Authority is responsible for the collection of mining royalties. There can be no assurance that the Peruvian government will not impose additional mining royalties or payments in the future or that they will not have an adverse effect on Gold Fields’ results of operations or financial condition. Gold Fields’ operations in Peru are subject to environmental laws, health and safety laws and other regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Gold Fields’ exploration, mining and milling activities in Cerro Corona are subject to a number of Peruvian laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. All mines, including 30 Table of Contents Cerro Corona, must obtain environmental permits from the government and have an Environmental Impact Assessment approved. Other matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, transportation of ore or hazardous substances, water use and discharges, power use and generation, use and storage of explosives, housing and other facilities for workers, reclamation, labor standards and mine safety and occupational health. There is no assurance that current environmental laws, health and safety laws, and other regulations that may have an impact on Gold Fields’ operations will not be replaced or modified in the future, or that Gold Fields will not become subject to new more stringent regulations, which could impose significant costs and burdens on its operations. For instance, the development of more stringent environmental protection programs in Peru could impose constraints and additional costs on Gold Fields’ operations in Peru. Likewise, existing or new health and safety laws and regulations could cause health and safety authorities to require Gold Fields to shut down all or a portion of the mine or to implement costly compliance measures. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru—Environmental”. The acquisition of Western Areas, BGSA and South Deep may expose Gold Fields to unknown liabilities and risks. Prior to acquiring a 100% interest in South Deep in 2007 from GFI Joint Venture Holdings (Proprietary) Limited (previously known as Barrick Gold South Africa (Pty) Limited, or BGSA), a subsidiary of Barrick Gold Corporation, or Barrick, and Gold Fields Operations Limited (previously known as Western Areas Limited, or Western Areas), Gold Fields was able to conduct only limited due diligence on South Deep, Western Areas and BGSA. There can be no assurance that Gold Fields identified all the liabilities of, and risks associated with, South Deep, BGSA or Western Areas prior to acquiring them or that it will not be subject to unknown liabilities of, and risks associated with, South Deep, Western Areas or BGSA, including liabilities and risks that may become evident only after Gold Fields has been involved in the operational management of South Deep for a longer period of time. On August 21, 2008, Western Areas received a summons from Randgold and Exploration Company Limited, or R&E, and African Strategic Investment (Holdings) Limited. The summons claims that, under prior ownership, Western Areas was part of a fraud whereby JCI Limited unlawfully disposed of shares owned by R&E in Randgold Resources Limited and Afrikander Lease Limited, now known as Uranium One. The action currently remains in abeyance. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings”. Gold Fields has not independently confirmed the reliability of the South Deep, BGSA or Western Areas information for the period prior to their respective acquisitions by Gold Fields included in this annual report. In respect of information relating to South Deep or Western Areas presented in this annual report for the period before their respective acquisitions by Gold Fields, Gold Fields relied upon publicly available information, including information publicly filed by Western Areas with the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, or JSE, and certain due diligence materials supplied by Western Areas and Barrick. See “Information on South Deep, Western Areas and BGSA”. Gold Fields was not involved in the preparation of this information and has not had the opportunity to perform comprehensive due diligence. Until the exploration drilling and resource modeling in Phase 2 is completed, Gold Fields cannot verify the accuracy or completeness of the information or materials or any failure by Western Areas or Barrick to disclose events that may have occurred, but that are unknown to Gold Fields, that may affect the significance or accuracy of any such information. Shareholders outside South Africa may not be able to participate in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. Securities laws of certain jurisdictions may restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow participation by certain shareholders in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. 31 Table of Contents In particular, holders of Gold Fields securities who are located in the United States (including those who hold ordinary shares or ADSs) may not be able to participate in securities offerings by or on behalf of Gold Fields unless a registration statement under the US Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such securities or an exemption from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act is available thereunder. Securities laws of certain other jurisdictions may also restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow the participation of all holders in such jurisdictions in future issues of securities carried out by Gold Fields. Holders who have a registered address or are resident in, or who are citizens of, countries other than South Africa should consult their professional advisors as to whether they require any governmental or other consents or need to observe any other formalities to enable them to participate in any offering of Gold Fields securities. Investors in the United States and other jurisdictions outside South Africa may have difficulty bringing actions, and enforcing judgments, against Gold Fields, its directors and its executive officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any state thereof or under the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa. Gold Fields is incorporated in South Africa. The majority of Gold Fields’ directors and executive officers (as well as Gold Fields’ independent registered public accounting firm) reside outside of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of the assets of Gold Fields are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce against these persons or Gold Fields a judgment obtained in a United States court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities or other laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, investors in other jurisdictions outside South Africa may face similar difficulties. A foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts provided that: • the court which pronounced the judgment had jurisdiction to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by South African law with reference to the jurisdiction of foreign courts; • the judgment is final and conclusive (that is, it cannot be altered by the court which pronounced it); • the judgment has not lapsed; • the recognition and enforcement of the judgment by South African courts would not be contrary to public policy, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that the documents initiating the proceedings outside South Africa were properly served on the defendant and that the defendant was given the right to be heard and represented by counsel in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal; • the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means; • the judgment does not involve the enforcement of a penal or revenue law; and • the enforcement of the judgment is not otherwise precluded by the provisions of the Protection of Businesses Act 99 of 1978, as amended, of the Republic of South Africa. It is the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, that does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment is contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable or excessive awards will generally be contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. South African courts will usually implement their own procedural laws and, where an action based on an international contract is brought before a South African court, the capacity of the parties to the contract will usually be determined in accordance with South African law. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws or the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa may be brought before South African courts. A plaintiff who 32 Table of Contents is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. Furthermore, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South Africa. Investors may face liquidity risk in trading Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on JSE Limited. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. The ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on the JSE in a timely manner, especially in a large block trade, may be restricted by this limited liquidity. See “The Offer and Listing—JSE Limited”. Gold Fields may not pay dividends or make similar payments to its shareholders in the future. Gold Fields pays cash dividends only if funds are available for that purpose. Whether funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including the amount of cash available and Gold Fields’ capital expenditures (on both existing infrastructure as well as on exploration and other projects) and other cash requirements existing at the time. Under South African law, Gold Fields will be entitled to pay a dividend or similar payment to its shareholders only if it meets the solvency and liquidity tests set out in the Companies Act No. 61 of 1973, or the Companies Act, and Gold Fields’ Articles of Association. Given these factors (including the capital and investment needs of the business) and the Board of Directors’ discretion to declare a dividend (including the amount and timing thereof) cash dividends or other similar payments may not be paid in the future. Gold Fields’ non-South African shareholders face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations since any dividends will be paid in Rand. Dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares have historically been paid in Rand. The U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of any dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares will be adversely affected by potential future reductions in the value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. In the future, it is possible that there will be changes in South African exchange control regulations, such that dividends paid out of trading profits will no longer be freely transferable outside South Africa to shareholders who are not residents of the Common Monetary Area. See “Additional Information—South African Exchange Control Limitations Affecting Security Holders”. Gold Fields’ ordinary shares are subject to dilution upon the exercise of Gold Fields’ outstanding share options. As of September 30, 2010, Gold Fields had an aggregate of 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares authorized to be issued and as of that date an aggregate of 706,236,170 ordinary shares were issued and outstanding. Gold Fields currently has two securities option plans which are authorized to grant options in an amount of up to an aggregate of 35,311,809 ordinary shares. As of September 30, 2010, 14,342,311 shares are outstanding under these plans. Gold Fields’ employees and directors had outstanding, as of September 30, 2010, options to purchase a total of 1,122,858 ordinary shares at exercise prices of between Rand 46.23 and Rand 154.65 that expire between October 25, 2010 and March 3, 2014. Such expiry dates may be extended due to unscheduled closed periods during which certain Gold Fields employees and directors may be prohibited from exercising options. Gold Fields had outstanding, as of September 30, 2010, 5,336,769 share appreciation rights at strike prices of between Rand 69.48 and Rand 127.72, which expire between March 24, 2012 and September 1, 2016, and 7,715,984 performance vesting restricted shares due to be settled between March 1, 2011 and September 1, 2013. As of the same date, Gold Fields had outstanding, 24,200 restricted shares due to be settled in November 2010, 42,600 restricted shares due to be settled in November 2011 and 43,200 restricted shares due to be settled in November 2012 under The Gold Fields Limited 2005 Non-Executive Share Plan. Shareholders’ equity interests in Gold 33 Table of Contents Fields will be diluted to the extent of future exercises or settlements of these rights and any additional rights. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The GF Management Incentive Scheme,” “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The Gold Fields Limited 2005 Share Plan,” “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The GF Non-Executive Director Share Plan” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The Gold Fields Limited 2005 Non-Executive Share Plan”. Sales of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares, or the perception that a large number of ordinary shares will be sold, may cause the market price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares to decrease. As of March 17, 2009, Mvelaphanda Resources, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Mvelaphanda Gold Limited, Mvela Gold, took receipt of a 15% shareholding in GFI Mining South Africa, or GFIMSA, as part of a series of transactions effected to meet the requirement for 15% HDSA ownership within five years of the enactment of the Mining Charter. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—General—Mvelaphanda Transaction”. Immediately upon receipt of the GFIMSA shares, Mvelaphanda Gold Limited exercised its right to require the exchange of the GFIMSA shares for 50 million new ordinary shares in the issued share capital of Gold Fields. Accordingly, on March 17, 2009, Mvela Gold used the GFIMSA Shares to subscribe for 50 million new ordinary shares in Gold Fields. Pursuant to these transactions, Mvela Gold owned approximately 7% of the listed shares of Gold Fields. Since March 17, 2009, Mvela Gold has sold approximately 27.8 million of its Gold Fields ordinary shares, representing approximately 3.9% of the listed shares of Gold Fields. Gold Fields holds a right of first refusal over the ordinary shares held by Mvela Gold in the event Mvela Gold wishes to sell them. A large volume of sales of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares by Mvelaphanda Gold Limited or another shareholder, all at once or in blocks, could decrease the prevailing market price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares and could impair Gold Fields’ ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. Additionally, even if substantial sales are not effected, the mere perception of the possibility of these sales could decrease the market price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares and could have a negative effect on Gold Fields’ ability to raise capital in the future. Further, anticipated downward pressure on Gold Fields’ ordinary share price due to actual or anticipated sales of ordinary shares could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares, which may itself cause the price of the ordinary shares to decline. 34 Table of Contents 