Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In the near-term, the success of our business will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to generate revenues from our marketed products: Uceris™ (budesonide) extended release tablets, Zegerid® (omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate) capsules and powder for oral suspension, Glumetza® (metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets), Cycloset® (bromocriptine mesylate) tablets, and Fenoglide® (fenofibrate) tablets; • our ability to continue to generate revenues from our authorized generic Zegerid (omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate) capsules prescription product; • our ability to maintain patent coverage for our promoted commercial products, including whether favorable outcomes are obtained in pending and any future patent infringement lawsuits; • our ability to successfully advance the development of, obtain regulatory approval for and ultimately commercialize, our investigational drugs: Ruconest® (recombinant human C1 esterase inhibitor), rifamycin SV MMX® and SAN-300; and • our ability to further expand our product portfolio through co-promotion, in-licensing or acquisition of products that would be complementary to our existing products or that otherwise have attractive commercial potential. Each of these factors, as well as other factors that may impact our business, are described in more detail in the following discussion. Although the factors highlighted above are among the most significant, any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time, and you should consider all of the factors described when evaluating our business. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent upon our ability to generate revenues from our promoted commercial products, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful. Our ability to generate product revenue in the near term will depend in part on the success of our promoted commercial products, which in turn will depend on several factors, including: • our ability to successfully launch Uceris and to generate and increase market demand for, and sales of, our promoted commercial products; • our ability to maintain patent coverage for our promoted commercial products, including whether favorable outcomes are obtained in pending and any future patent infringement lawsuits; 33 Table of Contents • the performance of third-party manufacturers and their ability to maintain commercial manufacturing operations in accordance with regulatory and quality requirements and as necessary to meet commercial demand for the products and avoid supply interruptions; • the occurrence of adverse side effects, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other issues relating to the products, and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls; • the availability of adequate levels of reimbursement coverage for the products from third-party payors, particularly in light of the availability of other branded and generic competitive products; and • our ability to effectively market our promoted commercial products in accordance with the requirements of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other governmental and regulatory authorities. We promote Uceris under a strategic collaboration with Cosmo Technologies Limited, or Cosmo. We promote Zegerid under a license agreement with the University of Missouri. We promote Glumetza under a commercialization agreement with Depomed, Inc., or Depomed. We promote Cycloset under a distribution and license agreement with S2 Therapeutics, Inc., or S2, and VeroScience, LLC, or VeroScience. We promote Fenoglide under a license agreement with Healthcare Royalty Partners, L.P., or HRP, and Shore Therapeutics, Inc., or Shore. Our ability to successfully commercialize our marketed products is also subject to risks associated with these agreements, including the financial condition of our partners, the potential for termination of the agreements, and our reliance on our partners for certain key activities. We cannot be certain that our marketing of our promoted commercial products will result in increased demand for, and sales of, those products. We are also dependent on our ability to generate and increase revenues from sales of our authorized generic Zegerid prescription products. Under the terms of our distribution and supply agreement with Prasco LLC, or Prasco, Prasco distributes and sells an authorized generic of prescription Zegerid capsules in the U.S. Prasco pays us a specified invoice supply price and a percentage of the gross margin on sales of the authorized generic products. We are dependent on Prasco and cannot be certain that Prasco will be able to maintain or increase revenues related to the authorized generic product. Even if physicians prescribe Zegerid products, third-party payors and pharmacists may encourage patients to use generic versions of other proton pump inhibitor, or PPI, products. In many cases, insurers and other healthcare payment organizations encourage the use of generic brands through their prescription benefits coverage and payment or reimbursement policies. Any inability to generate and increase sales of our authorized generic Zegerid prescription products would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our investigational drugs will require significant development activities and ultimately may not be approved by the FDA, and any failure or delays associated with these activities or the FDA’s approval of such products would increase our costs and time to market. We will not be permitted to market Ruconest, rifamycin SV MMX and SAN-300 or any other investigational drugs for which we may acquire rights in the U.S. until we complete all necessary development activities and obtain regulatory approval from the FDA. To market a new drug in the U.S., we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of a new drug application, or NDA, or a biologics license application, or BLA. An NDA or BLA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable investigational drug. The FDA’s regulatory review of NDAs and BLAs is becoming increasingly focused on product safety attributes, and even if approved, investigational drugs may not be approved for all indications requested and such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed, restricted distribution methods or other limitations. 34 Table of Contents Failure can occur at any stage of clinical testing. The clinical study process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe for humans or effective for their intended uses. Our clinical tests must comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, including a requirement that they be conducted in accordance with good clinical practices. We may encounter delays based on our inability to timely enroll enough patients to complete our clinical studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after showing promising results in earlier studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical studies, we may decide to discontinue development of an investigational drug. We or the FDA may suspend clinical studies at any time if the patients participating in the studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our applications to conduct the clinical studies or in the conduct of our studies. Regulatory approval of an NDA or a BLA is difficult, time-consuming and expensive to obtain. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for NDA or BLA approval varies depending on the investigational drug, the disease or the condition that the investigational drug is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular investigational drug. Despite the time and expense associated with preclinical and clinical studies, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies, CMC studies or clinical studies. The FDA and similar foreign authorities could delay, limit or deny approval of an investigational drug for many reasons, including because they: • may not deem an investigational drug to be adequately safe and effective; • may not find the data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical studies to be sufficient to support a claim of safety and efficacy; • may interpret data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical studies significantly differently than we do; • may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities utilized for our development activities or our proposed commercial manufacturing operations; • may conclude that we have not sufficiently demonstrated long-term stability of the formulation for which we are seeking marketing approval; • may change approval policies (including with respect to our investigational drugs’ class of drugs) or adopt new regulations; or • may not accept a submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission. Even if we believe that data collected from our preclinical studies, CMC development program and clinical studies of our investigational drugs are promising and that our information and procedures regarding CMC are sufficient, our data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory authority, or regulatory interpretation of these data and procedures may be unfavorable. In addition, before the FDA approves one of our investigational drugs, the FDA may choose to conduct an inspection of one or more clinical or manufacturing sites. These inspections may be conducted by the FDA both at U.S. sites as well as overseas. Any restrictions on the ability of FDA investigators to travel overseas to conduct such inspections, either because of financial or other reasons including political unrest, disease outbreaks or terrorism, could delay the inspection of overseas sites and consequently delay FDA approval of our investigational drugs. Our product development costs will increase and our product revenues will be delayed if we experience delays or setbacks for any reason. In addition, such failures could cause us to abandon an investigational drug entirely. If we fail to take any current or future investigational drug from the development stage to market, we will have incurred significant expenses without the possibility of generating revenues, and our business will be adversely affected. To market any drugs outside of the U.S., we and current or future collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods, including obtaining reimbursement approval in select markets. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. 35 Table of Contents In addition to the general development and regulatory risks described above, each of our investigational drugs is subject to the following additional risks: Ruconest (recombinant human C1 esterase inhibitor) Ruconest is a recombinant version of the human protein C1 esterase inhibitor, which is produced using proprietary transgenic technology. We have rights to commercialize Ruconest in North America under a license agreement with Pharming Group NV, or Pharming. In November 2012, we announced that when compared with placebo, Ruconest demonstrated a significantly shorter time to beginning of relief of symptoms, the primary endpoint, in a pivotal phase III clinical study that was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Ruconest 50 IU/kg for the treatment of acute attacks of angioedema in patients with HAE. We plan to submit a BLA to the FDA during the second quarter of 2013, seeking approval to market Ruconest for the treatment of acute attacks of angioedema in patients with HAE. In addition, we currently are exploring clinical and regulatory strategies with the goal of initiating a proof-of-concept study in late 2013 to evaluate Ruconest for the treatment of acute pancreatitis. This program is very early stage, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to initiate the study in a timely manner or at all or otherwise pursue development for this indication. We cannot be certain as to whether the BLA will be timely submitted or whether the FDA will accept the BLA for review following submission and ultimately approve it. Although the top-line results from the phase III study were positive, we cannot be sure that the FDA will concur with our clinical interpretation of the results or the conduct of the study. Ultimately, the FDA may provide us with a complete response letter or take other action that could delay or prevent approval. The FDA may ultimately conclude that we have not demonstrated sufficient safety or efficacy to approve a BLA filing for this investigational drug or may require additional clinical studies or other development programs before approving Ruconest. The costs of any additional clinical studies and development programs could be significant, and we and Pharming may not have sufficient resources to complete any additional development requirements in a prompt manner or at all. We are dependent on Pharming for many activities related to the Ruconest development program, including conduct of the phase III study and manufacturing and supply, and there are significant risks concerning Pharming’s ability to continue to perform these functions based on its limited financial resources. Any inability of Pharming to continue to fund its operations would have a material adverse effect on the Ruconest development program. Moreover, Ruconest utilizes Pharming’s transgenic technology platform for the production of recombinant human proteins, and to date there has been only one other prescription product approved by the FDA that utilizes transgenic technology. As a result, Ruconest is subject to risks related to the novelty of its technology platform as well as other general development risks, any of which may result in additional costs and delays prior to our ability to obtain U.S. regulatory approval for, and commercialize, Ruconest. Rifamycin SV MMX In September 2012, we announced positive top-line results from a phase III clinical study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rifamycin SV MMX for the treatment of patients with travelers’ diarrhea. The study results showed that rifamycin SV MMX, when compared with placebo, demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the time to last unformed stool, or TLUS, the primary endpoint of the study. We have licensed rights to develop and commercialize rifamycin SV MMX in the U.S. from Cosmo. Dr. Falk Pharma GmbH, or Dr. Falk, Cosmo’s European development partner, is conducting a second phase III clinical study to evaluate the efficacy of rifamycin SV MMX versus ciprofloxacin with a primary endpoint of TLUS in patients with travelers’ diarrhea. Based on a prespecified interim analysis, an independent data monitoring committee has recommended that approximately 250 patients be added to the study, which originally targeted 36 Table of Contents enrolling approximately 780 patients. Dr. Falk is working with the Indian regulatory authorities to gain approval for this amendment to the protocol. We anticipate that the estimated timeline for completion of the study will be updated once Dr. Falk receives approval to move forward with the amended protocol. The Dr. Falk study has taken longer than originally anticipated and we cannot be certain that it will be completed in a timely manner or at all. Assuming positive results in the second phase III clinical study, we and Dr. Falk plan to share the clinical data from our respective phase III studies for inclusion in each company’s regulatory submissions. We cannot be certain that Dr. Falk will be able to complete its study in a timely manner or that results from Dr. Falk’s study will be positive or provide a sufficient basis for planned regulatory submissions. SAN-300 (anti-VLA-1antibody) We have acquired the exclusive worldwide rights to a humanized anti-VLA-1 monoclonal antibody, or mAb, development program, through the acquisition of Covella Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Covella, and a related license agreement with Biogen Idec MA Inc., or Biogen. SAN-300, our anti-VLA-1 mAb, is an inhibitor of VLA-1, also known as a1b1 integrin, and has shown activity in multiple preclinical models of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. We initially expect to develop SAN-300 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In December 2012, we completed a phase I dose-escalation clinical study in healthy volunteers to determine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of single doses of SAN-300 in both intraveneous, or IV, and subcutaneous formulations. The phase I study was conducted in Australia and enrolled a total of 66 healthy volunteers . We plan to begin a phase IIa clinical study evaluating SAN-300 for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis during the fourth quarter of 2013. Although SAN-300 has shown activity in pre-clinical models, it is at a very early stage of development, and has only recently completed the initial phase of human clinical testing. As a result, we cannot be certain that further clinical testing and any necessary additional pre-clinical testing will be timely or successful, and there are many significant risks for this early-stage development program. Our reliance on our strategic partners, third-party clinical investigators and clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical studies or we may be unable to use the clinical data gathered if they fail to comply with our patient enrollment criteria, our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or otherwise fail to perform under our agreements with them. As an integral component of our clinical development programs, we engage clinical investigators and CROs to enroll patients and conduct and manage our clinical studies, including CROs located both within and outside the U.S. In addition, it is anticipated that U.S. regulatory approval for many of our investigational drugs will be supported in part by clinical studies that have been or are being conducted by our strategic partners in connection with CROs or other third parties. Accordingly, our ability to successfully commercialize these products is subject to risks associated with our agreements with these partners, including the potential for early termination of the agreements and the financial condition of our partners. As a result, many key aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control and are impacted by general conditions both within and outside the U.S. If the CROs and other third parties that we rely on for patient enrollment and other portions of our clinical studies fail to perform the clinical studies in a timely and satisfactory manner and in compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, including the FDA’s regulations relating to good clinical practices, we could face significant delays in completing our clinical studies or we may be unable to rely in the future on the clinical data generated. If these CROs or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our patient enrollment criteria, our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated, we may be required to repeat one or more of our clinical studies and we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may limit our commercial opportunity. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive in the markets in which our commercial products compete and our investigational drugs may compete, and there are many other currently 37 Table of Contents marketed products that are well-established and successful, as well as development programs underway. In addition, many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields with significantly greater financial resources, sales and marketing capabilities, manufacturing capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates, and other resources than we do. Larger pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies typically have significantly larger field sales force organizations and invest significant amounts in advertising and marketing their products. As a result, these larger companies are able to reach a greater number of physicians and consumers than we can with our smaller sales organization. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our marketed prescription products currently compete with many other drug products. Uceris competes with many other products, including: • branded 5-aminosalicylate prescription products (such as Asacol®, Lialda®, Pentasa® and Apriso®); • generic 5-aminosalicylate prescription products (such as sulfasalzine, mesalamine, and balsalazide); • generic prescription corticosteroids (such as prednisone and hydrocortisone); • branded and generic prescription immunosuppressive products (such as aziothioprine and 6-mercaptopurine); and • branded anti-TNF-a prescription products (such as Remicade® and Humira®). Zegerid (branded and authorized generic) competes with many other products, including: • branded PPI prescription products (such as Nexium®, Aciphex® and Dexilant®); • generic PPI prescription products (such as delayed-release omeprazole, delayed-release lansoprazole and delayed-release pantoprazole); • OTC PPI products (such as Prilosec OTC®, Prevacid® 24HR and store-brand versions); and • other prescription and/or OTC acid-reducing agents (such as histamine-2 receptor antagonists and antacids). Glumetza competes with many other products, including: • other branded immediate-release and extended-release metformin products (such as Fortamet®, Glucophage® and Glucophage XR®); • branded extended-release metformin combination products (such as Janumet®XR and Kombiglyze®XR); • generic immediate-release and extended-release metformin products; and • other prescription diabetes treatments. In addition, various companies are developing new products that may compete with the Glumetza products in the future. For example, Depomed has licensed rights to use its extended-release patents in combination with canagliflozin, a sodium-glucose transporter-2, or SGLT2, compound being developed by Janssen. Depomed has also licensed rights to use its extended-release metformin patents to Boehringer Ingelheim for use with certain fixed dose combination products that include proprietary Boehringer Ingelheim compounds. Like Glumetza, Cycloset competes with many other products, including: • dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitors, or DPP-4, products (such as Januvia® and Onglyza®); • glucagon-like peptide 1, or GLP-1, receptor agonist products (such as Byetta®, Victoza® and Bydureon®); 38 Table of Contents • thiazolidinedione, or TZD, products (such as Avandia® and Actos®); • sulfonylureas products (such as Amaryl® and Glynase®); and • branded and generic metformin products. In addition, various companies are developing new products that may compete with the Cycloset product in the future. For example, SGLT2 and new DPP-4 inhibitor products in development could compete with Cycloset in treating type 2 diabetes patients in the future. In addition, companies could develop combination products that include bromocriptine mesylate as one of the active ingredients for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Fenoglide competes with many other products, including: • other branded and generic formulations of fenofibrate (such as Tricor®, Antara® and Lipofen®), gemfibrozil (such as Lopid®), and fenofibric acid (such as Trilipix®); and • other prescription treatments for primary hyperlipidemia, mixed dyslipidemia, and hypertriglyceridemia (such as statins and niacin). In addition, various companies are developing new products that may compete with Fenoglide in the future. For example, monoclonal antibodies targeting PCSK9 for reducing LDL-C could compete with Fenoglide in the future. In addition, companies could develop combination products with fenofibrate as one of the active ingredients for the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia, mixed lipidemia, or hypertriglyceridemia. For example, rosuvastatin calcium and fenofibric acid are being studied in combination for the treatment of mixed dyslipidemia. We or our strategic partners may also face competition for our products from lower-priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower-priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada and other developed countries. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. The existence of numerous competitive products may put downward pressure on pricing and market share, which in turn may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if approved, our investigational drugs will compete with many other drug and biologic products that are already entrenched in the marketplace, as well as face competition from other product candidates currently under development. Our ability to generate revenues also depends on the success of our strategic alliances with MSD Consumer Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, and Glaxo Group Limited, an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline, plc, or GSK. Our ability to generate revenues in the longer term will also depend on whether our strategic alliances with Merck and GSK lead to revenue growth from existing omeprazole products and the successful commercialization of additional omeprazole products, and we cannot be certain that we will receive any additional milestone payments or sales-based royalties from these alliances. Under these agreements, we depend on the efforts of Merck and GSK, and we have limited control over their commercialization efforts. We are also subject to the risk of termination of each of these agreements. We cannot be certain that these strategic partners will continue to devote significant resources to the sale or development of products under the agreements. Any determination by Merck or GSK to cease promotion or development of products under our strategic alliances would limit our potential to receive additional payments under these agreements, and adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenues to grow our business. See also “Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property” for a description of the Zegerid related patent litigation and the potential impact on our strategic alliances. 39 Table of Contents We do not currently have any manufacturing facilities and instead rely on third-party manufacturers and our strategic partners for supply. We rely on third-party manufacturers and our strategic partners to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis, and we do not currently have any of our own manufacturing or distribution facilities. Our manufacturers must comply with U.S. regulations, including the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, applicable to the manufacturing processes related to pharmaceutical products, and their facilities must be inspected and approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies on an ongoing basis as part of their business. In addition, because several of our key manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., they must also comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. We have limited control over our third-party manufacturers and strategic partners, including with respect to regulatory compliance and quality assurance matters. Any delay or interruption of supply related to a failure to comply with regulatory or other requirements, or in connection with transfer of manufacturing activities to alternate facilities, would limit our ability to sell our products. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and potential for product liability claims. With respect to our investigational drugs, if the FDA finds significant issues with any of our manufacturers during the pre-approval inspection process, the approval of those drugs could be delayed while the manufacturer addresses the FDA’s concerns, or we may be required to identify and obtain the FDA’s approval of a new supplier. This could result in significant delays before manufacturing of our products can begin, which in turn would delay commercialization of our products. In addition, the importation of pharmaceutical materials into the U.S. is subject to regulation by the FDA, and the FDA can refuse to allow an imported item into the U.S. if it is not satisfied that the product complies with applicable laws or regulations. For Uceris, we rely on Cosmo, located in Italy, to manufacture and supply all of our drug product requirements. We recently entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Cosmo relating to the commercial supply of Uceris. For Zegerid, we currently rely on Norwich Pharmaceuticals, Inc., located in New York, as the sole third-party manufacturer of the brand and related authorized generic product. In addition, we rely on a Patheon Inc., or Patheon, facility located in Canada for the supply of Zegerid powder for oral suspension. For Glumetza 500 mg, we assumed from Depomed a commercial manufacturing agreement with Patheon, and, accordingly, we rely on a Patheon facility located in Puerto Rico as the sole third-party manufacturer of Glumetza 500 mg. We currently rely on Depomed to oversee product manufacturing and supply of Glumetza 1000 mg. In turn, Depomed relies on a Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. facility located in Canada as the sole third-party manufacturer of Glumetza 1000 mg. In connection with the license of rights to Cycloset, we assumed a manufacturing services agreement with Patheon, and, accordingly, we rely on a Patheon facility located in Ohio as the sole third-party manufacturer for Cycloset. In connection with the license of rights to Fenoglide, we assumed a commercial supply agreement with Catalent Pharma Solutions, LLC, or Catalent, and accordingly, we rely on a Catalent facility located in Kentucky as the sole third-party manufacturer for Fenoglide. For our Ruconest investigational drug, we rely on Pharming to oversee product manufacturing and supply. In turn, Pharming utilizes certain of its own facilities as well as third-party manufacturing facilities for supply, all of which are located in Europe. For our rifamycin SV MMX investigational drug, we will rely on Cosmo, located in Italy, to manufacture and supply all of our drug product requirements. We plan to enter into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Cosmo relating to the commercial supply of rifamycin SV MMX. 40 Table of Contents For our SAN-300 investigational drug, we are utilizing materials previously manufactured by Biogen for the production of clinical trial materials. In the future, Biogen has a right of first offer to supply our product requirements. We plan to contract with a third-party manufacturer in the event Biogen elects not to supply our product requirements. We and our strategic partners also rely in many cases on sole source suppliers for active ingredients and other product materials and components. Any significant problem that our strategic partners or the third-party manufacturers or suppliers experience could result in a delay or interruption in the supply until the problem is cured or until we or our partners locate an alternative source of supply. In addition, because these sole source manufacturers and suppliers in many cases provide services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, they may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture the finished forms of our pharmaceutical products or the key ingredients in our products is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. Any new supplier of products or key ingredients would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical studies, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier before we could distribute products from that supplier. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. Any delay, interruption or cessation of production by our third-party manufacturers or strategic partners of our commercial products or investigational drugs or their respective materials and components, as a result of any of the above factors or otherwise, may limit our ability to meet demand for our commercial products resulting in lost potential revenue or, with respect to investigational drugs, delay any ongoing clinical trials, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our reporting and payment obligations under governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we must calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to governmental programs are complex. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. In addition, because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with the government reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. Regulatory approval for our currently marketed products is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which our products are deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for many patients in varied 41 Table of Contents circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of our currently marketed products. Following receipt of regulatory approval, any products that we market continue to be subject to extensive regulation. These regulations impact many aspects of our operations, including the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the products. The FDA also frequently requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of these products. For example, in connection with the approval of Zegerid powder for oral suspension, we committed to commence clinical studies to evaluate the product in pediatric populations. We have not yet commenced any of the studies and have requested a waiver of this requirement from the FDA. Similarly, in connection with the approval of Uceris, we committed to a post-marketing requirement to conduct an 8-week randomized clinical study in children 5 to 17 years of age with active, mild to moderate ulcerative colitis. We currently plan to submit the protocol for this study later this year and expect to initiate the study once we have reached agreement with the FDA on the study design. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, enacted in 2010, imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. In addition, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for 42 Table of Contents payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. The reforms imposed by the PPACA will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of the new law cannot be known until these provisions are implemented. In addition, although the PPACA was recently upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, it is possible that the PPACA may be modified or repealed in the future. If not preempted by this federal law, several states require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing various other marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, certain states require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, as part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. This practice is regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities, including, in particular, requirements concerning record keeping and control procedures. Any failure to comply with the regulations may result in significant criminal and civil penalties as well as damage to our credibility in the marketplace. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals, managed care initiatives and other legal developments that may increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to market our products. In March 2010, the President signed the PPACA, which makes extensive changes to the delivery of healthcare in the U.S. This act includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies, some of which were effective immediately and others of which will be taking effect over the next several years. For example, the act seeks to expand healthcare coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The act also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit, an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S., increased disclosure obligations and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics. The act also contains cost-containment measures that could reduce reimbursement levels for healthcare items and services generally, including pharmaceuticals. It also will require reporting and public disclosure of payments and other transfers of value provided by pharmaceutical companies to physicians and teaching hospitals. These measures could result in decreased net revenues from our pharmaceutical products and decreased potential returns from our development efforts. Although the PPACA was recently upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, it is possible that the PPACA may be modified or repealed in the future. In addition, there have been a number of other legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the pharmaceutical industry. These include proposals to permit reimportation of pharmaceutical products from other countries and proposals concerning safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeiting and diversion of drugs, a bill was introduced in a previous Congress that would establish an electronic drug pedigree and track-and-trace system capable of electronically recording and authenticating every sale of a drug unit throughout the distribution chain. This bill or a similar bill may be introduced in Congress in the future. California has already enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system. California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect beginning in January 2015. Compliance with California and any future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements will likely require an increase in our operational expenses and will likely be administratively burdensome. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, as well as many other pharmaceutical companies, sponsor prescription drug coupons and other cost-savings programs to help reduce the burden of co-payments and co-insurance. During 2012, lawsuits have been filed against 43 Table of Contents several pharmaceutical companies alleging, among other things, that the drug-makers violated anti-trust laws and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, when they provided coupon programs to privately-insured consumers that subsidize all or part of the cost-sharing obligation (co-pay or co-insurance) for a branded prescription drug or drugs. We cannot be certain as to whether we will be named in any future similar lawsuit or concerning the potential outcome of the ongoing litigation. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our marketed products and investigational drugs. These risks exist even if a product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could significantly harm our business by, among other things, reducing demand for our products, injuring our reputation and creating significant adverse media attention and costly litigation. Plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our insurance policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Although we have product and clinical study liability insurance with a coverage limit of $15.0 million, this coverage may prove to be inadequate. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available for our commercial or clinical study activities on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets, including our intellectual property. If we are unable to retain key personnel, our business will suffer. We are a small company and, as of December 31, 2012, had 251 employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, product development, business development and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. Our success also depends on a number of key senior management personnel, particularly Gerald T. Proehl, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain their services. In addition, although we have a “key person” insurance policy on Mr. Proehl, we do not have “key person” insurance policies on any of our other employees that would compensate us for the loss of their services. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, replacement could be difficult and may take an extended period of time and could impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives. Our future growth may depend on our ability to identify and in-license or acquire additional products, and if we do not successfully do so, or otherwise fail to integrate any new products into our operations, we may have limited growth opportunities. We are continuing to seek to acquire or in-license products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business strategy. Future in-licenses or acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies; • a reduction of our current financial resources; • difficulty or inability to secure financing to fund development activities for such acquired or in-licensed technologies; 44 Table of Contents • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; and • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs. We may not have sufficient resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. In particular, we may compete with larger pharmaceutical companies and other competitors in our efforts to establish new collaborations and in-licensing opportunities. These competitors likely will have access to greater financial resources than us and may have greater expertise in identifying and evaluating new opportunities. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. If we become subject to unsolicited public proposals from activist stockholders due to our shifting strategic focus or otherwise, we may experience significant uncertainty that would likely be disruptive to our business and increase volatility in our stock price. Even if we are successful in future in-licenses or acquisitions, other companies who have shifted focus to new products and additional development programs have been the target of unsolicited public proposals from activist stockholders. The unsolicited and often hostile nature of these public proposals can result in significant uncertainty for current and potential licensors, suppliers, patients, physicians and other constituents, and can cause these parties to change or terminate their business relationships with the targeted company. Companies targeted by these unsolicited proposals from activist stockholders may not be able to attract and retain key personnel as a result of the related uncertainty. In addition, unsolicited proposals can result in stockholder class action lawsuits. The review and consideration of an unsolicited proposal as well as any resulting lawsuits can be a significant distraction for management and employees, and may require the expenditure of significant time, costs and other resources. If we were to receive unsolicited public proposals from activist stockholders, we may encounter all of these risks and, as a result, may be delayed in executing our core strategy. We could be required to spend substantial resources on the evaluation of the proposal as well as the review of other opportunities that never come to fruition. If we were to receive any of these unsolicited public proposals, the future trading price of our common stock is likely to be even more volatile than in the past, and could be subject to wide price fluctuations based on many factors, including uncertainty associated with the proposals. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately maintain such rights would materially affect our business. We regard the protection of patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights that we own or license as critical to our success and competitive position. Laws and contractual restrictions, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or misappropriation of our technology or deter others from independently developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Patents Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we have licensed or will license and on patent protection for our own inventions related to the products that we market and intend to market. Our success also depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Our patent position is subject to uncertainties similar to other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. For example, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims, particularly those that concern biotechnology and pharmaceutical inventions. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products, and protection that we have and do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. In addition, our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Other drug companies may challenge the scope, validity and enforceability of our patent claims and 45 Table of Contents may be able to develop generic versions of our products if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. We have licensed the primary patent rights for each of our products and investigational drugs. Although we consult with our strategic partners and licensors concerning our licensed patent rights, in most cases those partners remain primarily responsible for prosecution activities. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources that our strategic partners and licensors devote to these activities. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will ever be issued or that the issued patents will be properly maintained. In addition, we are subject to the risk that one or more of our licenses could be terminated and any loss of our license rights would negatively impact our ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products and investigational drugs. In addition, any patent litigation settlement agreements we enter with regard to our products could be subject to further review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Any legal or regulatory challenge to one or more of our settlement agreements by the U.S. Department of Justice and/or the Federal Trade Commission could adversely impact our business and revenues. Uceris We have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize Uceris in the U.S. under our strategic collaboration with Cosmo. Currently, there are four issued U.S. patents that are owned by Cosmo and licensed to us that we believe provide coverage for Uceris (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,431,943, 7,410,651; RE43,799 and 8,293,273), each of which expires in 2020. Zegerid and Pending Patent Litigation We have entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with the University of Missouri for patents and pending patent applications relating to specific formulations of PPIs with antacids and other buffering agents and methods of using these formulations. Currently, there are three U.S. patents that we believe provide coverage for our Zegerid products (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,840,737; 6,780,882; and 7,399,772), each of which expires in 2016. In addition to the issued U.S. patent coverage described above, several international patents have been issued. Zegerid Rx and Zegerid OTC Patent Litigation Zegerid Rx Litigation In April 2010, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware ruled that five patents covering Zegerid capsules and Zegerid powder for oral suspension (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,489,346; 6,645,988; 6,699,885; 6,780,882; and 7,399,772) were invalid due to obviousness. These patents were the subject of lawsuits we filed in 2007 against Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par, in response to abbreviated new drug applications, or ANDAs, filed by Par with the FDA. The University of Missouri, licensor of the patents, is joined in the litigation as a co-plaintiff. In May 2010, we filed an appeal of the District Court’s ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Following the District Court’s decision, Par launched its generic version of Zegerid capsules in late June 2010. In September 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed in part the April 2010 decision of the District Court. The Federal Circuit found that certain claims of asserted U.S. Patent Nos. 6,780,882 and 7,399,772, which Par had been found to infringe, were not invalid due to obviousness. These patents represent two of the five patents that were found to be invalid by the District Court, and the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court’s finding of invalidity for the asserted claims from the remaining three patents. The Federal Circuit also upheld the District Court’s finding that there was no inequitable conduct. Following the Federal Circuit’s decision, Par announced that it had ceased distribution of its generic Zegerid capsules product in September 2012. In December 2012, the Federal Circuit issued an order denying a combined petition for panel and en banc rehearing filed by Par and issued its mandate, remanding the case to the District Court for further proceedings pertaining to damages. In February 2013, we filed an amended complaint with the District Court for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,780,882 and 7,399,772 and requested a jury trial with respect to the issue of damages in connection with Par’s launch of its generic version of Zegerid capsules in June 2010. In March 2013, Par filed its amended answer, which alleges, among other things, failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted and non-infringement based on purported invalidity of the two asserted patents. In addition, Par filed a motion for a judgment on the pleadings, alleging, among other things, that the two asserted patents are invalid because the Federal Circuit purportedly did not expressly address certain prior art references considered by the District Court. Although we do not believe that Par has a meritorious basis upon which to further challenge validity of the asserted patents in this proceeding, we cannot be certain of the timing or outcome of this or any other proceedings. 46 Table of Contents In December 2011, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., or Zydus, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid capsules. The University of Missouri, licensor of the patents, is joined in the litigation as a co-plaintiff. Zydus had filed an ANDA with the FDA regarding its intent to market a generic version of Zegerid capsules prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In September 2012, we amended our complaint to be limited to U.S. Patent No. 7,399,772, which patent was found not to be invalid in the September 2012 Federal Circuit decision. In October 2012, Zydus filed its answer, which alleges, among other things, failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. The lawsuit was commenced within the requisite 45 day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Zydus’ proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patent. The Markman hearing for this matter has been scheduled in July 2013 and a trial has been scheduled in January 2014. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in May 2014. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. In August 2012, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc., collectively referred to herein as Dr. Reddy’s, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid capsules. The University of Missouri, licensor of the patents, is joined in the litigation as a co-plaintiff. Dr. Reddy’s had filed an ANDA with the FDA regarding its intent to market a generic version of Zegerid capsules prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In October 2012, we amended our complaint to be limited to U.S. Patent No. 7,399,772, which patent was found not to be invalid in the September 2012 Federal Circuit decision. Also in October 2012, Dr. Reddy’s filed its answer, which alleges, among other things, non-infringement, invalidity, failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted and estoppel. The lawsuit was commenced within the requisite 45 day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Dr. Reddy’s proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patent. The Markman hearing for this matter has been scheduled in July 2013 and a trial has been scheduled in July 2014. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in January 2015. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. Zegerid OTC Litigation In September 2010, Merck filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Par for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid OTC. We and the University of Missouri, licensors of the listed patents, are joined in the lawsuit as co-plaintiffs. Par had filed an ANDA with the FDA regarding its intent to market a generic version of Zegerid OTC prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In October 2012, Merck amended its complaint to be limited to U.S. Patent No. 7,399,772, which patent was found not to be invalid in the September 2012 Federal Circuit decision. Also in October 2012, Par filed its answer, which alleges, among other things, failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted, non-infringement and invalidity. Par has received tentative approval of its proposed generic Zegerid OTC product. The lawsuit was commenced within the requisite 45-day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Par’s proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patent. Although the 30-month stay expired in February 2013, the parties have agreed that Par will not launch its generic Zegerid OTC product unless there is a District Court judgment favorable to Par or in certain other specified circumstances. The Markman hearing for this matter has been scheduled in July 2013 and a trial has been scheduled in January 2015. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. In September 2010, Merck filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Perrigo Research and Development Company, or Perrigo, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid OTC. We and the University of Missouri, licensors of the listed patents, were joined in the lawsuits as co-plaintiffs. Perrigo had filed an ANDA with the FDA regarding its intent to market a generic version of Zegerid OTC prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In January 2013, this case was settled allowing entry by Perrigo upon expiration of the applicable patents (or earlier under certain circumstances), and the District Court entered an order dismissing the case with prejudice. 47 Table of Contents In December 2011, Merck filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Zydus for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid OTC. We and the University of Missouri, licensors of the listed patents, are joined in the litigation as co-plaintiffs. Zydus had filed an ANDA with the FDA regarding its intent to market a generic version of Zegerid OTC prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In September 2012, Merck amended its complaint to be limited to U.S. Patent No. 7,399,772, which patent was found not to be invalid in the September 2012 Federal Circuit decision. In October 2012, Zydus filed its answer, which alleges, among other things, failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted. The lawsuit was commenced within the requisite 45-day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Zydus’ proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patent. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in May 2014. The Markman hearing for this matter has been scheduled in July 2013 and a trial has been scheduled in January 2014. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. Any adverse outcome in the Zegerid Rx and Zegerid OTC litigation described above would adversely impact our business, including the amount of revenues we receive from sales of Zegerid brand and authorized generic prescription products and our ability to receive, milestone payments and royalties under our agreement with Merck. For example, the royalties payable to us under our license agreement with Merck are subject to reduction in the event it is ultimately determined by the courts (with the decision being unappealable or unappealed within the time allowed for appeal) that there is no valid claim of the licensed patents covering the manufacture, use or sale of the Zegerid OTC product and third parties have received marketing approval for, and are conducting bona fide ongoing commercial sales of, generic versions of the licensed products. Any negative outcome may also negatively impact the patent protection for the products being commercialized pursuant to our ex-US license with GSK. Although a U.S. ruling is not binding in countries outside the U.S., similar challenges to those raised in the U.S. litigation may be raised in territories outside the U.S. At this time we are unable to estimate possible losses or ranges of losses for ongoing actions. Regardless of how these litigation matters are ultimately resolved, the litigation has been and will continue to be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Glumetza and Pending Patent Litigation We have exclusive rights to manufacture and commercialize the Glumetza products in the U.S., including its territories and possessions and Puerto Rico, under our commercialization agreement with Depomed. Currently, there are four issued U.S. patents that are owned or licensed by Depomed that we believe provide coverage for the Glumetza 500 mg dose product (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,340,475; 6,635,280; 6,488,962; and 6,723,340), with expiration dates in 2016, 2020 and 2021. There are three issued U.S. patents that are owned or licensed by Depomed that we believe provide coverage for the Glumetza 1000 mg dose product (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,488,962; 7,780,987; and 8,323,692), with expiration dates in 2020 and 2025. In November 2009, Depomed filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against Lupin Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary, Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., collectively referred to herein as Lupin, for infringement of certain patents listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza. The lawsuit was filed in response to an ANDA filed with the FDA by Lupin regarding Lupin’s intent to market generic versions of Glumetza 500 mg and 1000 mg tablets prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In February 2012, we and Depomed entered into a settlement agreement with Lupin that grants Lupin the right to begin selling a generic version of Glumetza in February 2016, or earlier under certain circumstances. In March 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California entered an order dismissing the litigation. In June 2011, Depomed filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey against Sun Pharma Global FZE, Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc., collectively referred to herein as Sun, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza. Valeant International Bermuda, or Valeant, was joined in the lawsuit as a co-plaintiff. The lawsuit was filed in response to an ANDA filed with the FDA by Sun regarding Sun’s intent to market generic versions of Glumetza 500 mg and 1000 mg tablets prior to the expiration of the listed patents. In January 2013, we, Depomed and Valeant entered into a settlement agreement with Sun that grants Sun the right to begin selling a generic version of Glumetza in August 2016, or earlier under certain circumstances. In January 2013, the District Court dismissed the lawsuit without prejudice in view of the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement is subject to review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. 48 Table of Contents In April 2012, Depomed filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Watson Laboratories, Inc. — Florida, Actavis, Inc. and Watson Pharma, Inc., collectively referred to herein as Watson, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza 1000 mg at the time the lawsuit was filed (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,488,962 and 7,780,987). Valeant is joined in the lawsuit as a co-plaintiff. The lawsuit was filed in response to an ANDA filed with the FDA by Watson regarding Watson’s intent to market a generic version of Glumetza 1000 mg tablets prior to the expiration of the listed patents. Depomed and Valeant commenced the lawsuit within the requisite 45-day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Watson’s proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patents. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in September 2014. Watson has filed an answer in the case that asserts, among other things, non-infringement and invalidity of the asserted patents, failure to state a claim, lack of subject matter jurisdiction, and has also filed counterclaims. In February 2013, Depomed amended its complaint to add infringement of a newly listed Orange Book patent (U.S. Patent No. 8,323,692), as well as two non-Orange Book listed patents (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,736,667 and 8,329,215). The Markman hearing for this matter has been scheduled in April 2014, and the trial has been scheduled in May 2014. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. In February 2013, Depomed filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Watson Laboratories, Inc. — Florida, Actavis, Inc. and Watson Pharma, Inc., collectively referred to herein as Watson, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza 500 mg at the time the lawsuit was filed (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,340,475; 6,488,962; 6,635,280 and 6,723,340). The lawsuit was filed in response to an ANDA filed with the FDA by Watson regarding Watson’s intent to market a generic version of Glumetza 500 mg tablets prior to the expiration of the listed patents. Depomed commenced the lawsuit within the requisite 45-day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Watson’s proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patents. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in July 2015. Under the terms of our commercialization agreement with Depomed, Depomed will manage the ongoing patent infringement litigation relating to Glumetza, subject to certain consent rights in favor of us, including with regard to any proposed settlements. We are responsible for 70% of the future out-of-pocket costs, and Depomed is responsible for 30% of the future out-of-pocket costs, related to patent infringement cases. Although Depomed has indicated that it intends to vigorously defend and enforce its patent rights, we are not able to predict the timing or outcome of ongoing or future actions. At this time we are unable to estimate possible losses or ranges of losses for ongoing actions. Any adverse outcome in the litigation described above would adversely impact our business and revenues. Regardless of how these litigation matters are ultimately resolved, the litigation will continue to be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Cycloset We have exclusive rights to manufacture and commercialize Cycloset in the U.S. under our distribution and license agreement with S2 and VeroScience. Currently, there are three issued U.S. patents that we have licensed from S2 and VeroScience that we believe provide coverage for Cycloset (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,679,685; 5,716,957; and 7,888,310), with expiration dates in 2014, 2015 and 2023. Fenoglide and Pending Patent Litigation We have exclusive rights to manufacture and commercialize Fenoglide in the U.S. under the terms of a license agreement with HRP and Shore. Currently, there are two issued U.S. patents that we believe provide coverage for the Fenoglide products (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,658,944, and 8,124,125), with expiration dates in 2024. Prior to the execution of the license agreement, Shore entered into a settlement arrangement with Impax Laboratories, Inc., or Impax, in connection with patent infringement litigation associated with Impax’s ANDA for a 49 Table of Contents generic version of Fenoglide and a related paragraph IV challenge. The settlement terms grant Impax a sublicense to begin selling a generic version of Fenoglide on October 1, 2015, or earlier under certain circumstances. In February 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware entered an order dismissing the litigation, and we assumed Shore’s obligations associated with the sublicense to Impax. In January 2013, we filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Mylan Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., collectively referred to herein as Mylan, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Fenoglide 120 mg and 40 mg (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,658,944, and 8,124,125). Veloxis Pharmaceuticals A/S, or Veloxis, is joined in the lawsuit as a co-plaintiff. The lawsuit was filed in response to an ANDA filed with the FDA by Mylan regarding Mylan’s intent to market a generic version of Fenoglide 120 mg and 40 mg tablets prior to the expiration of the listed patents. We commenced the lawsuit within the requisite 45-day time period, resulting in an FDA stay on the approval of Mylan’s proposed product for 30 months or until a decision is rendered by the District Court, which is adverse to the asserted patents, whichever may occur earlier. Absent a court decision, the 30-month stay is expected to expire in June 2015. Mylan has filed an answer in the case that asserts, among other things, non-infringement, invalidity, and failure to state a claim, and has also filed counterclaims. We are not able to predict the timing or outcome of this lawsuit. Ruconest We have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the Ruconest investigational drug in the U.S., Canada and Mexico under our license and supply agreements with Pharming. Currently, there are two issued U.S. patents that are owned by Pharming and licensed to us that we believe provide coverage for Ruconest (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,067,713 and RE43,691), which expire in 2022 and 2024. In addition, we believe Ruconest, as a biological product, is entitled under the PPACA to a period of 12 years of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. Rifamycin SV MMX We have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the rifamycin SV MMX investigational drug in the U.S. under our strategic collaboration with Cosmo. Currently, there are two issued U.S. patents that are owned by Cosmo and licensed to us that we believe provide coverage for rifamycin SV MMX (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,431,943 and 8,263,120), which expire in 2020 and 2025. In addition, we believe rifamycin SV MMX, as a new chemical entity, is entitled to a period of five years of data exclusivity. SAN-300 We acquired worldwide rights to develop and commercialize the SAN-300 investigational drug in connection with our acquisition of Covella. Currently, there are seven issued U.S. patents that are owned by Biogen and licensed to us that we believe provide coverage for SAN-300 (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,358,054; 7,462,353; 6,955,810; 7,723,073; 7,910,099; 8,084,031; and 8,084,028), which expire in 2020 and 2022. In addition, we believe SAN-300, as a biological product, is entitled under the PPACA to a period of 12 years of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. Trademarks We own, or have licensed the rights to use, the trademarks for each of our brand pharmaceutical products, as well as for our corporate name and logo. We have applied for trademark registration for various other names and logos. Over time, we intend to maintain registrations on trademarks that remain valuable to our business. The trademarks and trademark applications we own and license are important to our success and competitive position. Any objections we receive from the PTO, foreign trademark authorities or third parties relating to our registered trademarks and pending applications could require us to incur significant expense in defending the objections or establishing alternative names. There is no guarantee we will be able to secure any of our pending trademark applications with the PTO or comparable foreign authorities. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks would be lost or impaired. We could also be forced to cease using any of our trademarks that are found to infringe upon or otherwise violate the trademark or service mark rights of another company, and, as a result, we could lose all the goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement or violation. 50 Table of Contents Third parties may choose to file patent infringement claims against us, which litigation would be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could be materially adverse to our business. The products we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. Any third party patent infringement litigation may result in a loss of rights and would be time-consuming and costly. In addition, we may be required to negotiate licenses with one or more third parties with terms that may or may not be favorable to us. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We may incur operating losses in the future and may not be able to sustain profitability. The extent of any future operating losses and our ability to sustain profitability are highly uncertain. We have been engaged in developing and commercializing drugs and have generated significant operating losses since our inception in December 1996. Our commercial activities and continued product development and clinical activities will require significant expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized $218.0 million in total revenues, and, as of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $285.7 million. We may incur additional operating losses and capital expenditures as we support the continued marketing of our products and development of our investigational drugs, as well as any other products or investigational drugs that we acquire or in-license. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly due to uncertainties about future sales levels for our marketed products and future costs associated with our investigational drugs. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because the commercial success of, and demand for, marketed products, as well as the success and costs of our development programs are uncertain and therefore our future prospects are uncertain. The level of our revenues and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • commercial success of our marketed prescription products; • potential to receive revenue from Zegerid authorized generic products; • results of clinical studies and other development programs; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our investigational drugs and any future investigational drugs we develop or in-license; • whether we are able to maintain patent protection for our products, including whether favorable outcomes are obtained in the pending litigation; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • progress under our strategic alliances with Merck and GSK, including the impact on these alliances from generic competition and the potential for early termination of, or reduced payments under, the related agreements; 51 Table of Contents • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us, our strategic partners or our competitors; and • legislative changes, including healthcare reform, affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. To the extent we need to raise additional funds in connection with the licensing or acquisition of new products or to continue our operations, we may be unable to raise capital when needed. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and use of our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our current operations through at least the next twelve months; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our cash resources being consumed earlier than we expect. Although we do not believe that we will need to raise additional funds to finance our current operations through at least the next twelve months, we may pursue raising additional funds for various reasons, including to expand our commercial presence, in connection with licensing or acquisition of new marketed products or investigational drugs, to continue development of investigational drugs in our pipeline, or for other general corporate purposes. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through equity and/or debt financing or through strategic collaborations or licensing agreements. Our existing universal shelf registration statement, which was declared effective in December 2011, may permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell up to approximately $75.0 million of equity or debt securities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such offerings of securities. Factors influencing the availability of additional financing include the progress of our commercial and development activities, investor perception of our prospects and the general condition of the financial markets, among others. In addition, our ability to borrow additional amounts under our loan agreement with Comerica Bank, or Comerica, depends upon a number of conditions and restrictions, and we cannot be certain that we will satisfy all borrowing conditions at a time when we desire to borrow such amounts under the loan agreement. For example, we are subject to a number of affirmative and negative covenants, each of which must be satisfied at the time of any proposed borrowing. If we have not satisfied these various conditions, or an event of default otherwise has occurred, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts under the loan agreement, and may be required to repay any amounts previously borrowed. We cannot be certain that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and use of our line of credit will be adequate to sustain our current operations. To the extent we require additional funding, we cannot be certain that such funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us at that time, our ability to continue our current operations or pursue new product opportunities would be significantly limited. Our current and any future indebtedness under our loan agreement with Comerica could adversely affect our financial health. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we may incur a significant amount of indebtedness. Such indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy other debt obligations we may incur in the future; 52 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because our indebtedness under the loan agreement with Comerica bears interest at a variable rate. If an event of default occurs under the loan agreement, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts, and may be required to repay any amounts previously borrowed. The events of default under the loan agreement include, among other things, a material adverse effect on (i) our business operations, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects, (ii) our ability to repay the obligations under the loan agreement or otherwise perform our obligations under the loan agreement, or (iii) our interest in, or the value, perfection or priority of Comerica’s security interest in the collateral, which generally includes all of our cash and accounts receivable, but excludes intellectual property. For a description of the loan agreement, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources. Covenants in our loan agreement with Comerica may limit our ability to operate our business. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we are subject to specified affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability: to undergo certain change of control events; to convey, sell, lease, license, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; to create, incur, assume, guarantee or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; to grant liens; to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; and to make investments. In addition, under the loan agreement we are required to maintain our cash balances with either Comerica or another financial institution covered by a control agreement for the benefit of Comerica. We are also subject to specified financial covenants with respect to a minimum liquidity ratio and, in specified limited circumstances, minimum EBITDA requirements, as defined in the loan agreement. Our subsidiary must also guarantee our obligations under the loan agreement, and we are required to pledge the stock of our subsidiary to the lender to secure our obligations under the loan agreement. If we default under the loan agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable, which would negatively impact our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset taxes that would otherwise be due could be limited or lost entirely if we do not continue to generate taxable income in a timely manner or if we trigger an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code which, if we continue to generate taxable income, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had Federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $118.1 million and $129.7 million, respectively. Our ability to use our NOLs to offset taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs, and we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to generate future taxable income. In addition, even if we generate taxable income, realization of our NOLs to offset taxes that would otherwise be due could be restricted by annual limitations on use of NOLs triggered by an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. An “ownership change” may occur when there is a 50% or greater change in total ownership of our company by one or more 5% shareholders within a three-year period. The loss of some or all of our NOLs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years, and other states may consider similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 53 Table of Contents Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over U.S. spending and deficits, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a difficult residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. Domestic and international equity markets have experienced and may continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil based on domestic and international economic conditions and concern, including concerns over U.S. spending and deficits. In the event these economic conditions and concerns continue and the markets continue to remain volatile, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may decline. In addition, we maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. If economic instability continues, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. In connection with the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, we are required to make estimates and judgments which involve uncertainties, and any significant differences between our estimates and actual results could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In particular, as part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates under different assumptions or conditions could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at attractive prices. The market prices for securities of specialty biopharmaceutical companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. In addition, we have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our loan agreement with Comerica prohibits us from paying dividends. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially as a result of one or more of the following factors: • announcements concerning our commercial progress and activities, including sales and revenue trends for the we promote and the status of the patent litigation relating to such products; • the sales and revenue trends for authorized generic Zegerid prescription products; • announcements concerning our products or competitive products, including progress under development programs, results of clinical studies or status of regulatory submissions; • announcements concerning any recalls or supply interruptions caused by manufacturing issues or otherwise; • announcements made by our strategic partners concerning their business or the products they develop or promote; 54 Table of Contents • developments, including announcements concerning progress, delays or terminations, pursuant to our strategic alliances with Merck and GSK; • other disputes or developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and trade secrets, litigation matters, and our ability to patent or otherwise protect our products and technologies; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including the impact and possible repeal of healthcare reform; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • changes in, or our failure to meet or exceed, investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations; • announcements concerning borrowings under our loan agreement, takedowns under our existing universal shelf registration statement or other developments relating to the loan agreement, universal shelf registration statement or our other financing activities; • acquisition of products or businesses by us or our competitors; • litigation and government inquiries; or • economic and political factors, including election results, sovereign debt uncertainty, wars, terrorism and political unrest. Our stock price could decline and our stockholders may suffer dilution in connection with future issuances of equity or debt securities. Although we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and use of our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our current operations through at least the next twelve months, we may pursue raising additional funds for various reasons, including to expand our commercial presence, in connection with licensing or acquisition of new marketed products or investigational drugs, to continue development of investigational drugs in our pipeline, or for other general corporate purposes. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through equity and/or debt financing, or through strategic collaborations or licensing agreements. To the extent we conduct substantial future offerings of equity or debt securities, such offerings could cause our stock price to decline. For example, we may issue securities under our existing universal shelf registration statement or we may pursue alternative financing arrangements. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and future equity issuances, including future public offerings or future private placements of equity securities and any additional shares issued in connection with licenses or acquisitions, will also result in dilution to investors. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of resales of any of these shares of common stock due to an increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders may depress our stock price. A concentrated number of stockholders hold significant blocks of our outstanding common stock. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, certain of our executive officers have from time to time established programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock, and other employees and affiliates, including our directors and executive officers, may choose to establish similar plans in the future. If any of our stockholders cause securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. 55 Table of Contents We may become involved in securities or other class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Any securities or other class action litigation asserted against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could adversely affect our stock price and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • permitting the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board prior to attempting a takeover by potentially significantly diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 