Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition, Business and Industry The industry in which we operate is cyclical, with recurring periods of capacity increases. As a result, price fluctuations in response to supply and demand imbalances could harm our results of operations. The thin film transistor liquid crystal display, or TFT-LCD, industry in general is characterized by cyclical market conditions. The industry has been subject to significant and rapid downturns as a result of an imbalance between excess supply and a slowdown in demand, resulting in sharp declines in average selling prices. For example, average selling prices of our large-size panels increased by 12.1% between the fourth quarter of 2003 and the second quarter of 2004 but was followed by a sharp decrease of 22.2% between the second quarter and the third quarter of 2004 and a further decrease of 17.1% between the third quarter and the fourth quarter of 2004. Average selling prices of our large-size panels continued to decline by 6.5% between the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005 but recovered in the remainder of the year, increasing 12.8% between the first and third quarters of 2005 and increasing another 6.0% between the third and fourth quarters of 2005. Average selling prices of our large-size panels decreased in the first three quarters of 2006 by 25.8% from the fourth quarter of 2005, but increased by 3.9% in fourth quarter of 2006. On a year-on-year basis, average selling prices declined 13.7% in 2006 compared to 2005 and declined 21.1% in 2005 compared to 2004. Capacity expansion currently being undertaken or anticipated in the TFT-LCD industry has led to excess capacity and could continue to lead to a future period or periods of general excess capacity in the industry. For example, it is expected that as additional capacity provided by sixth- and future generation fabs becomes available, the TFT-LCD industry may face excess capacity. We cannot assure you that any continuing or further decrease in average selling prices or future downturns resulting from excess capacity or other factors affecting the industry will 5 Table of Contents not be severe or that any such continuation, decrease or downturn would not seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues will depend highly upon our ability to maintain market share, increase unit sales of existing products, and introduce and sell new products that offset the anticipated fluctuation and long-term declines in the average selling prices of our existing products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or expand market share, increase unit sales, and introduce and sell new products, to the extent necessary to compensate for market oversupply. We may experience declines in the average selling prices of our display panels irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry. The average selling prices of our display panels have declined in general and are expected to continually decline with time irrespective of industry-wide fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, technology advances and cost reductions. Although we may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies, we cannot provide assurance that we can maintain these prices in the face of market competition. If we are unable to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products, or if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing costs, our profit margins will be adversely affected. Although we were profitable in 2004, 2005 and 2006, if we are not profitable in 2007 or beyond, the value of the ADSs and our shares may be adversely affected. We expect that average selling prices for many of our existing products will continue to decline over the long term. If we are not able to reduce our costs of manufacturing these panels to offset expected declines in average selling prices and maintain a high capacity utilization rate, our gross margin will continue to decline, which could seriously harm our business and reduce the value of our equity securities. Although we were profitable in 2004, 2005 and 2006 we cannot assure you that we will be profitable in 2007 or beyond. Our future net sales, gross profit and operating income may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, including, but not limited to: · Our ability to develop and introduce new products to meet customers’ needs in a timely manner. The inability to develop or introduce new products in a timely manner may hurt our competitive position because customers may choose to source more advanced products from competitors. · Our ability to develop or acquire and implement new manufacturing processes and product technologies. If we are unable to successfully implement new manufacturing processes and product technologies in a timely manner, our competitors may seize new opportunities in new markets. · Our ability to control our fixed and variable costs and operating expenses. Increased fixed and variable costs and operating expenses may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. · Changes in our product mix or those of our customers. When our customers or we discontinue a product or experience production problems with new products, our results of operations may fluctuate. · Our ability to obtain raw materials and components at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. A shortage in raw materials and components could result in increased raw materials and components costs and put downward pressure on gross margins as well as cause delays to our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of customers and revenues. · Lower than expected growth in demand for TFT-LCD panels resulting in oversupply in the market. When oversupply conditions occur, we may reduce the price of our panels to maintain high capacity utilization rates or reduce the volume of our production. · Our ability to obtain adequate external financing on satisfactory terms. Our business is capital-intensive and if we are unable to maintain our sources of external funding, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. 6 Table of Contents · Fines and penalties payable. We are currently the subject of an investigation into possible anticompetitive behavior by the United States Department of Justice, the Commission of the European Communities Directorate-General for Competition, the Canadian Competition Bureau and the Japan Fair Trade Commission. In addition, the Korea Fair Trade Commission made a visit to our Korean affiliate as part of its investigation in the TFT-LCD industry. There are also over 100 civil lawsuits filed against us in the U.S. and Canada alleging, among other things, antitrust violations. Any penalties, fines or settlements made in connection with this investigation and/or these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. Our results of operations fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance. Our results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business and operations may be adversely affected by: · the cyclical nature of both the TFT-LCD industry, including fluctuations in average selling prices, and the markets served by our customers; · the speed at which we and our competitors expand production capacity; · access to raw materials and components, equipment, electricity, water and other required utilities on a timely and economical basis; · technological changes; · the loss of a key customer or the postponement of orders from a key customer; · the outcome of on-going and future litigation and government investigations; · changes in end users’ spending patterns; · changes to our management team; · the rescheduling and cancellation of large orders; · access to funding on satisfactory terms; · our customers’ adjustments in their inventory; and · natural disasters, such as typhoons and earthquakes, and industrial accidents, such as fires and power failures, as well as geo-political instability as a result of terrorism or political or military conflicts. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future periods, which may result in a decline in the price of the ADSs or shares. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot introduce new products on a timely basis or if our new products do not gain market acceptance. Early product development by itself does not guarantee the success of a new product. Success also depends on other factors such as product acceptance by the market. For example, although TFT-LCD technology was initially introduced commercially in the early 1990s, this technology began to gain wide market acceptance only in the last few years, especially in the consumer electronics sector. New products are developed in anticipation of future 7 Table of Contents demand. Our delay in the development of commercially successful products with anticipated technological advancement may adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that the launch of any new products will be successful, or that we will be able to produce sufficient quantities of these products to meet market demand. We plan to continue to expand our operations to meet the needs of high-growth applications in computer products, consumer electronics, LCD television and other markets as demand increases. Because these products, such as mobile phones, portable game consoles, digital cameras and LCD television, are expected to be marketed to a diversified group of end-users with demands for different specifications, functions and prices, we have developed different marketing strategies to promote our panels for these products. We cannot assure you that our strategy to expand our market share for these panels will be successful. If we fail to successfully market panels for these products, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our net sales and results of operations may suffer if there is a downturn in the demand for, or a further decrease in the average selling prices of, panels for computer products. A significant percentage of our net sales is derived from customers who use our TFT-LCD panels in computer products such as notebook computers and desktop monitors. Net sales of panels for computer products represented 78.1%, 65.3% and 53.0% of our net sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Demand for our panels for computer products is affected by numerous factors, including the general demand of the end-use markets and price attractiveness. For example, demand for desktop monitors is affected by the rate of substitution of TFT-LCD monitors for cathode ray tube, or CRT, monitors and the popularity of wide screen monitors. We believe that a significant percentage of our net sales is, and will continue to be, derived from end users purchasing TFT-LCD monitors to replace their existing CRT monitors or upgrading to larger sized TFT-LCD monitors. The rate of substitution of TFT-LCD monitors for CRT monitors may be affected by a general slowdown in the global economy or a change in the average selling prices of such products which may also adversely affect the demand. In addition, since most brand companies sell their computer products bundled with TFT-LCD monitors, a change in the bundling policy of brand companies could also reduce the demand for our products. Demand for notebook computer displays may be affected by various factors, including a slowdown in information technology spending by corporations as well as a decrease in consumer spending as a result of a general slowdown in the global economy. Demand for notebook computers is also affected by price changes. A slowdown in the demand for notebook computers could adversely affect the number of panels sold and the average selling prices for our notebook computer panels. If the demand for LCD television or consumer electronics products, or our market share in such end-use markets, does not continue to grow as expected, our business prospects and results of operations may suffer. Panels for use in LCD television and consumer electronics products accounted for 21.2%, 34.4% and 46.5% of our net sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, and we believe that such end-use markets will continue to present opportunities for growth. As end users may find LCD television attractive because of their thin size as compared to traditional CRT televisions, we believe that a substantial portion of our sales growth will be derived from end users purchasing LCD televisions as additional televisions or to replace traditional CRT televisions. We have installed, and we expect to continue to install, production capacity in anticipation of increased demand for LCD television generated as a result of the growing market acceptance of LCD television. As a result, if end users purchase LCD televisions at a slower rate than we expect, we may not be able to maintain high utilization rates of the capacity installed or allocated to manufacture panels for LCD television. In addition, we may face greater than expected downward pricing pressures for our panels used for LCD television and other applications as a result of excess supply of such panels due to excess capacity or as a result of price competition by competitors seeking to stimulate demand in order to maintain or increase market share. We also manufacture panels for use in consumer electronics products. Demand for consumer electronics products that use TFT-LCD panels may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including a slowdown in general economic conditions and a change in price. If there is a slowdown in the demand for LCD television or consumer electronics products that use TFT-LCD panels, our business prospects and results of operations may suffer. If we are unable to maintain high capacity utilization rates, our profitability will be adversely affected. High capacity utilization rates allow us to allocate fixed costs over a greater number of panels produced. Increases or decreases in capacity utilization rates can significantly impact our gross margins. Accordingly, our 8 Table of Contents ability to maintain or improve our gross margins will continue to depend, in part, on maintaining high capacity utilization rates. In turn, our ability to maintain high capacity utilization will depend on the ramp-up progress of our advanced production facilities and our ability to efficiently and effectively allocate production capacity among our product lines, as well as the demand for our products and our ability to offer products that meet our customers’ requirements at competitive prices. Although we maintained high capacity utilization rates in 2004 and 2005 and we have been successful in 2006 in the ramp-up of our fifth-generation, sixth-generation and 7.5-generation fabs, our results of operations in the past have been adversely affected by low capacity utilization. For example, at various times in 2006, we have had to lower our utilization rates to as low as 90% in order to offset the impact of excess inventory that was accumulating in the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain high capacity utilization rates through 2007 or beyond. If demand for our products does not meet our expectations, our capacity utilization will decrease and our gross margins will suffer. We may experience losses on inventories. Frequent new product introductions in the computer and consumer electronics industries can result in a decline in the average selling prices of our TFT-LCD panels and the obsolescence of our existing TFT-LCD panel inventory. This can result in a decrease in the stated value of our TFT-LCD panel inventory, which we value at the lower of cost or market value. We manage our inventory based on our customers’ and our own forecasts. Although adjustments are regularly made based on market conditions, we typically deliver our goods to the customers one month after a firm order is placed. While we maintain open channels of communication with our major customers to avoid unexpected decreases in firm orders or subsequent changes to placed orders, and try to minimize our inventory levels, such actions by our customers may have an adverse effect on our inventory management. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our net sales, and a loss of any one of these customers, or a significant decrease in orders from any of these customers, would result in the loss of a significant portion of our net sales. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our five largest customers accounted for 35.1% , 37.2% and 34.5%, respectively, of our net sales. In addition, certain customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the last three years. BenQ Corporation, or BenQ, and its subsidiaries accounted for 19.9%, 13.6% and 7.4% of our net sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., or Samsung, accounted for 3.6%, 9.2% and 11.2% of our net sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. As some of our major customers are brand companies which also provide original equipment manufacturing services for other brand companies, such as BenQ, our panels shipped to these customers include both panels ordered for their own account as well as panels ordered by or on behalf of their brand company customers. On March 22, 2007, the insolvency administrator of BenQ Mobile GmbH & Co. OHG (“OHG”) asserted that it will file a claim against BenQ for 504,000,000 euros. For more information, please see “Item 8.A.7. Litigation.” If this potential claim is filed or resolved in a way materially adverse to BenQ, BenQ’s results of operations and financial condition will be significantly impacted. Should we lose BenQ as a major customer, or if the amount of our sales to BenQ decreases, as a result of this potential claim or as a result of BenQ’s acquisition of OHG, our results of operations and financial condition may in turn be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, our largest customers have varied due to changes in our product mix. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales and may continue to experience fluctuations in the distribution of our sales among our largest customers as we periodically adjust our product mix. Our ability to maintain close and satisfactory relationships with our customers is important to the ongoing success and profitability of our business. If any of our significant customers reduces, delays or cancels its orders, or the financial condition of our key customers deteriorate, our business could be seriously harmed. Similarly, a failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of panels to meet the demands of these customers may cause us to lose customers, which may adversely affect the profitability of our business as a result. 9 Table of Contents If we are found to have violated antitrust and competition laws, we may be subject to severe fines or penalties that would have a material adverse effect to our business and operations. We, along with various competitors in the TFT-LCD industry, are under investigation for alleged violation of antitrust and competition laws. In December 2006, we became the subject of an antitrust investigation by the United States Department of Justice, the Commission of the European Communities Directorate-General for Competition, the Canadian Competition Bureau and the Japan Fair Trade Commission. In addition, the Korea Fair Trade Commission visited our Korean affiliate as part of its investigation into the TFT-LCD industry. If we are found to have violated antitrust laws, we will likely have to pay a fine or penalty as part of the settlement. It is also possible that certain executive officers or senior management may be held criminally liable and subject to imprisonment. Moreover, there are also over 100 civil lawsuits filed against us in the United States and Canada alleging, among other things, antitrust violations. At this stage, it is not possible to predict the outcome or likely outcome of these investigations or these lawsuits, or the final costs of resolving these matters. We have not created and do not currently have a litigation reserve, and therefore, any penalties, fines or settlements made in connection with this investigation and/or these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. Changes at our largest customers could cause sales of our products to decline. Mergers, acquisitions, divestments or consolidations involving our largest customers can present risks to our business, as management at the new entity may change the way they do business, including their transactions with us, or may decide not to use us as one of their suppliers of TFT-LCD products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that a combined entity resulting from a merger, acquisition or consolidation will continue to purchase TFT-LCD panels from us at the same level as each entity purchased in the aggregate when they were separate companies or that a divested company will purchase panels from us at all. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future revenues and allocate capacity efficiently and in a timely manner. Our customers generally provide rolling forecasts four to six months in advance of, and do not place firm purchase orders until one month before, the expected shipment date. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the TFT-LCD industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues in future periods. Moreover, we incur expenses and adjust inventory levels of raw materials and components based in part on customers’ forecast, and we may be unable to allocate production capacity in a timely manner to compensate for shortfalls in sales. We expect that, in the future, our sales in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. The inability to adjust production costs, to obtain necessary raw materials and components or to allocate production capacity quickly to respond to the demand for our products may affect our ability to maximize results of operations, which may result in a negative impact on the value of your investment in the ADSs or our shares. Our future competitiveness and growth prospects could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully ramp-up our first 7.5-generation fab or encounter disruptions in the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab. We currently have a 7.5-generation fab that is designed to process substrates of 1,950 mm x 2,250 mm, which is the optimal size for the production of panels larger than 40-inches. As of March 31, 2007, our 7.5-generation fab had an estimated input capacity of approximately 20,000 substrates per month, which we expect to ramp-up to 60,000 substrates per month by the end of 2007. We also commenced construction of our second 7.5-generation fab in the third quarter of 2006. The manufacturing processes for TFT-LCD panels are highly complex and potentially vulnerable to disruptions. Moreover, the successful completion of our second 7.5-generation fab depends upon a number of factors, including: timely delivery of equipment and machinery and the hiring and training of new skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain from third parties, if necessary, the technology, intellectual property or know-how that may be required for a second 7.5-generation fab on acceptable terms. Delays in the delivery of equipment and machinery as a result of increased demand for such equipment and machinery or the delivery of equipment and machinery that do not meet our specifications could delay the establishment of our 10 Table of Contents second 7.5-generation fab. If we face unforeseen disruptions in the manufacturing processes with respect to our first 7.5-generation fab or in the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab, we may not be able to realize the potential gains from the manufacturing of panels larger than 40-inches and may face disruptions in capturing the growth opportunities associated with the expected expansion of the market for LCD TV panels. If capital resources required for our expansion plans are not available, we may be unable to implement successfully our business strategy. Historically, we have been able to finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from our operating activities and financing activities, including the issuance of equity securities, long-term borrowings and the issuance of convertible and other debt securities. Our ability to expand our production facilities and establish next generation fabs will continue to largely depend on our ability to obtain sufficient cash flow from operations as well as external funding. We expect to make substantial capital expenditures in connection with the expansion of our production capacity, including investments in 2007 in connection with the ramp-up of our sixth-generation fab acquired through the QDI merger and our 7.5-generation fab, and the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab. These capital expenditures will be made well in advance of any additional sales to be generated from these expenditures. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we do not have the capital resources to complete our expansion plans or if our actual expenditures exceed planned expenditures for any number of reasons, including changes in: · our growth plan; · manufacturing process and product technologies; · market conditions; · prices of equipment; and · interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We cannot assure you that required additional financing will be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on satisfactory terms at appropriate times, we may have to curtail our expansion plans, which could result in a loss of customers, adversely affect our ability to implement successfully our business strategy and limit the growth of our business. We may encounter difficulties in realizing synergies, cost savings, or achieving within the anticipated time frame, expected strategic objectives and other benefits of the merger with QDI . On October 1, 2006, we merged with QDI, a company incorporated in Taiwan that manufactures and assembles TFT-LCD panels. The success of the merger depends, in part, on our ability to capture anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings, which may be impeded, delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include: · complexity of managing a larger business, including supply chain management, manufacturing capacity management, research and development, human resources and financial and audit management; · regulatory and commercial limitations on funding as a result of increased debt from the assumption of QDI debt; · difficulties in integrating the operations and financial condition, products, personnel and cultures; · unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to the merger that may become apparent in the future; · diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; · dilution of the stock ownership of existing shareholders or earnings per share; 11 Table of Contents · increased costs and efforts in connection with our compliance of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and · effects on our capacity utilization as a result of post-merger excess capacity and market conditions. We may encounter these and other unforeseen difficulties in the integration of QDI which may cause us to fail to realize synergies, cost savings, or achieve within the anticipated time frame, expected strategic objectives and other benefits of the merger with QDI . We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we may not be able to sustain our current market position if we fail to compete successfully. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We experience pressure on our prices and profit margins, due largely to additional and growing industry capacity from competitors in Taiwan, Korea, Japan and the PRC. The ability to manufacture on a large scale with greater cost efficiencies is a competitive advantage in our industry. Some of our competitors have greater access to capital and substantially greater production, research and development, intellectual property, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors have announced their plans to develop, and have already invested substantial resources in, seventh or higher generation capacity. Our competitors may be able to introduce products manufactured using such capacity in advance of our schedule. In addition, some of our larger competitors have more extensive intellectual property portfolios than ours, which they may use to their advantage when negotiating cross-licensing agreements for technologies. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. The principal elements of competition in the TFT-LCD industry include: · price; · product performance features and quality; · customer service, including product design support; · ability to reduce production cost; · ability to provide sufficient quantity of products to fulfill customers’ needs; · research and development; · time-to-market; and · access to capital. Our ability to compete successfully in the TFT-LCD industry also depends on factors beyond our control, including industry and general economic conditions. If brand companies do not continue to outsource the manufacturing of their products to original equipment manufacturing service providers with production operations in Taiwan or the PRC, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. In recent years, brand companies have increasingly outsourced the manufacturing of their products to original equipment manufacturing service providers in Taiwan, or such providers with part or all of their production operations in the PRC. We believe that we have benefited from this outsourcing trend in large part due to our production locations in both Taiwan and the PRC, which has allowed us to coordinate better our production and services with our customers’ requirements, especially in the areas of delivery time and product design support. We cannot assure you that this outsourcing trend will continue. If brand companies do not continue to outsource the manufacturing of their products to original equipment manufacturing service providers with their production operations in Taiwan or the PRC, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the scope and complexity of our operations and in the number of our employees. For example, we are currently devoting significant resources to the ramp-up of our second sixth-generation fab acquired through the QDI merger and our first 7.5-generation fab and the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab. This growth may strain our existing managerial, financial and other resources. In order to manage our growth, we must continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel for these functions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. We may undertake acquisitions or investments to expand our business that may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we may continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. Mergers, acquisitions or investments that we may enter into in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products into our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; • need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • failures in recognizing anticipated synergies; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack experience; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; and • potential expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment will likely require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, the value of your ADSs and the underlying ordinary shares may be diluted. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that can, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. The loss of any key management personnel or the undue distraction of any such personnel may disrupt our business. Our success depends on the continued services of key senior management, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management personnel. If we lose the services of key senior management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements or integrate replacement personnel in a timely manner or at all, which would seriously harm our business. In addition, our continuing growth will, to a large extent, depend on the attention of key management personnel to our daily affairs. For the foreseeable future, we expect that Mr. Kuen-Yao (K.Y.) Lee’s time will be divided between serving 13 Table of Contents as Chairman of our company and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BenQ. If Mr. Lee is not able to devote enough time to our company, our operations may be adversely affected. In May 2007, Mr. Lee was indicted by the Taoyuan District Prosecutors’ Office for alleged insider trading of BenQ stock and other related charges. While we are not a party to these proceedings, adverse publicity surrounding this case could have an adverse impact to our company. Moreover, if Mr. Lee is forced to resign from his position with us, or is otherwise no longer able to serve in his capacity as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our operations may be adversely affected. If we are not able to attract and retain skilled technical personnel, including research and development and other personnel, our operations and expansion plans would be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel in the research and development and manufacturing processing areas. In 2004, we established a new flat panel display research and development center, the AUO Technology Center, in Hsinchu Science Park. The 5,100 square meter research center houses 15 research labs, advanced training facilities and accommodates over 1,200 research engineers. We have also established a professional on-the-job training program for employees. Without a sufficient number of skilled employees, our operations and production quality would suffer. Competition for qualified technical personnel and operators in Taiwan is intense and the replacement of skilled employees is difficult. We may encounter this problem in the future, as we require increased numbers of skilled employees for our expansion. If we are unable to attract and retain our technical personnel and other employees, this may adversely affect our business, and our operating efficiency may deteriorate. Potential conflicts of interest with BenQ may cause us to lose opportunities to expand and improve our operations. We face potential conflicts of interest with BenQ. BenQ is our largest shareholder, owning directly and indirectly 8.47% of our outstanding shares as of April 15, 2007, and is also one of our largest customers. BenQ and its subsidiaries accounted for 19.9%, 13.6% and 7.4% of our net sales in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. BenQ’s substantial interest in our company may lead to conflicts of interest affecting our sales decisions or allocations. In addition, as of April 30, 2007, three of our nine directors and one of our three supervisors are representatives of BenQ, and Mr. Kuen-Yao (K.Y.) Lee, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BenQ. As a result, conflicts of interest between their duties to BenQ and us may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise with respect to representatives of BenQ, the conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. These conflicts may result in lost corporate opportunities, including opportunities that are never brought to our attention, or actions that may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities to expand and improve our operations. We need to comply with certain financial and other covenants under the terms of our debt instruments, the failure to comply with which would put us in default under those instruments. Our long-term loans and facilities contain financial and other covenants and the failure to comply with the covenants could trigger a requirement for early payment. The financial covenants include current ratios, indebtedness ratios and interest coverage ratios. A default under one debt instrument may also trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. In addition, such covenants restrict our ability to raise future debt financing. If we breach our financial or other covenants, our financial condition will be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to cure such breaches or repay the relevant debt. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud The United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent 14 Table of Contents registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still be unable to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Furthermore, during the course of the evaluation, documentation and attestation, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remedy immediately. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls, on an ongoing basis, over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred considerable costs and used significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Relating to Manufacturing Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to disruptions that can significantly increase our production costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are periodically modified to improve manufacturing yields and production efficiency. We face the risk of production difficulties from time to time that could cause delivery delays and reduced production yields. These production difficulties include capacity constraints, construction delays, difficulties in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, difficulties in changing our manufacturing technology and delays in the delivery or relocation of specialized equipment. We may encounter many of these difficulties in connection with the ramp-up of production capacity of our second sixth-generation fab, acquired through the QDI merger, and our first 7.5-generation fab, and the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab. We may also encounter these difficulties in connection with the adoption of new manufacturing process technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to ramp-up our second sixth-generation and our first 7.5-generation fabs, and construct our second 7.5 generation fab without material delays or difficulties, or that we will not encounter manufacturing difficulties in the future. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and components in suitable quantity and quality from our suppliers, our production schedules would be delayed and we may lose substantial customers. Raw materials and component costs represent a substantial portion of our cost of goods sold. We must obtain sufficient quantities of high quality raw materials and components at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We source most of our raw materials and components, including critical materials like color filters, driver integrated circuits, cold cathode fluorescent lamps, or CCFL, and polarizer and glass substrates, from a limited group of suppliers, both foreign and domestic. In 2001, we experienced a shortage of glass substrates due to the closure of the production facility of one of our two major suppliers of glass substrates. In addition, there was a shortage in the supply of color filters and glass substrates beginning in the second half of 2003 which continued into 2004. In addition, based on announced plans for new TFT-LCD production capacity, there could also be a shortage in the supply of driver integrated circuits, polarizer and CCFL. Our operations would be adversely affected if we could not obtain raw materials and components in sufficient quantity and quality at acceptable prices. We may also experience difficulties in sourcing adequate supplies for our operations if there is a ramp-up of production capacity by TFT-LCD manufacturers, including our company, without a corresponding increase in the supply of raw materials and components. The impact of any material shortage in raw materials and components will be magnified as we establish new fabs and continue to increase our production capacity. Although approximately 59.6% of our raw materials and components was sourced locally in Taiwan in 2006, we depend on supplies of certain principal raw materials and components from suppliers in Japan. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and components and other supplies of an acceptable quality in the future. Our inability to obtain high-quality raw materials and components in a timely and cost-effective manner may cause us to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of our customers and revenues. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain equipment from our suppliers, we may be forced to delay our expansion plans. We have purchased, and expect to purchase, a substantial portion of our equipment from foreign suppliers, especially for the ramp-up of our second sixth-generation and our first 7.5-generation fabs, and the construction of our second 7.5-generation fab. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. For example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to satisfy only partially our equipment orders in the normal time frame. The unavailability of equipment, delays in the delivery of equipment or the delivery of equipment that does not meet our specifications could delay implementation of our expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. If we are unable to implement our expansion plans on schedule or in line with customer expectations, our business may suffer. If we are unable to manufacture successfully our products within the acceptable range of quality, our results of operations will be adversely affected. TFT-LCD manufacturing processes are complex and involve a number of precise steps. Defective production can result from a number of factors, including: · the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; · human error; · equipment malfunction; · use of substandard raw materials and components; and · inadequate sample testing. From time to time, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, lower than anticipated production yields as a result of the above factors, particularly in connection with the expansion of our capacity or change in our manufacturing processes. In addition, our production yield on new products will be lower than average as we develop the necessary expertise and experience to produce those products. If we fail to maintain high production yields and high quality production standards, our reputation may suffer and our customers may cancel their orders or return our panels for rework, which will adversely affect our results of operations. If we violate environmental regulations, we may be subject to fines or restrictions that could cause our operations to be delayed or interrupted and our business to suffer. Our operations can expose us to the risk of environmental claims which could result in damages awarded or fines imposed against us. We must comply with regulations relating to storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain materials and wastes resulting from our manufacturing processes. We incurred small fines in December 2002 and October 2003 for non-compliance with a waste storage-labeling requirement. In June 2004, we also incurred small fines for failure to update our air pollution emission permit. Future changes to existing environmental regulations or unknown contamination of our sites, including contamination by prior owners and operators of our sites, may give rise to additional compliance costs or potential exposure to liability for environmental claims that may seriously affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Technologies and Intellectual Property If we cannot successfully introduce, develop or acquire advanced technologies, our profitability may suffer. Technology and industry standards in the TFT-LCD industry evolve quickly, resulting in steep price declines in the advanced stages of a product’s life cycle. To remain competitive, we must continually develop or acquire advanced manufacturing process technologies and build next generation fabs to lower production costs and enable 16 Table of Contents timely release of new products. In addition, we expect to utilize other display technologies, such as low temperature poly-silicon, or LTPS, technologies to develop new products. Our ability to manufacture products by utilizing more advanced manufacturing process technologies to increase production efficiency will be critical to our sustained competitiveness. We plan to invest a substantial amount of capital to ramp-up our second sixth-generation fab, acquired through the QDI merger, ramp-up our first 7.5-generation fab and construct our second 7.5-generation fab. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in completing our expansion plans or in the development of other future technologies for our fabs, or that we will be able to complete them without material delays or at the expected costs. If we fail to do so, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We also cannot assure you that there will be no material delays in connection with our efforts to develop new technology and manufacture more technologically advanced products. If we fail to develop or make advancements in product technologies or manufacturing process technologies on a timely basis, we may become less competitive. Other flat panel display technologies or alternative display technologies could render our products uncompetitive. We currently manufacture products primarily using TFT-LCD technology, which is currently one of the most commonly used flat panel display technologies. We may face competition from flat panel display manufacturers utilizing alternative flat panel technologies, including plasma discharge panel, or PDP, and organic light emitting device, or OLED, technologies. Currently, PDP technology is primarily used to produce panels larger than 30-inches for use in television, as compared to the TFT-LCD technology primarily used to produce panels less than 40-inches for use in monitors, notebooks and LCD television. However, as the demand for LCD televisions with panel sizes as large as that of televisions using PDP technology continues to grow, competition between these two technologies is likely in the large-size television market. Another commercially available flat panel technology is OLED. OLED technology is currently primarily used, and is beginning to compete with TFT-LCD technology, in small- to medium-size applications, such as mobile phones and digital still cameras. Future development of OLED technology may also allow it to compete with TFT-LCD technology in larger applications such as monitors, notebooks and LCD television and render our products uncompetitive. In addition, there are other alternative flat panel technologies currently in the research and development stage, such as field emission display, or FED, inorganic electroluminescent, or IEL, and surface-conduction electron-emitter, or SED, display technologies. If the various alternative flat panel technologies currently commercially available or in the research and development stage are developed to have better performance-to-price ratios, such technologies may compete with TFT-LCD technology and render our products uncompetitive. We also face competition from alternative display technologies, particularly those utilizing projection technology, such as front digital mirror device projector, digital light processing projector, LCD projector and liquid crystal on silicon projector technologies. These alternative forms of display technology may be competitive in terms of performance-to-price ratio. If alternative display technologies gain a larger market share in the market for large-size television, our business prospects may be adversely affected. However, advancement and changes in alternative flat panel technologies are dependent on manufacturing economics and consumer demand. For example, in 2006, we disbanded our research and development team dedicated to OLED technology because of high material cost and a relatively low utilization rate. Even though we seek to remain competitive through research and development of flat panel technologies, we may invest in research and development in certain technologies that do not come to fruition. If we lose the support of our technology partners or the legal rights to use our licensed manufacturing process or product technologies, our business may suffer. Enhancing our manufacturing process and product technologies is critical to our ability to provide high quality products to our customers at competitive prices. We intend to continue to advance our manufacturing process and product technologies through internal research and development and licensing from other companies. We currently have licensing arrangements with Fujitsu Limited, Semiconductor Energy Laboratory Co., Ltd., or SEL, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., or Toppan, Guardian Industries Corp., Sharp Corporation, Samsung, Hitachi Displays Ltd., Honeywell International Inc., Honeywell Intellectual Properties Inc. and other companies for product and manufacturing process technologies used to produce a substantial number of our TFT-LCD panels. These 17 Table of Contents agreements are typically for terms of five to seven years. If we are unable to renew our technology licensing arrangements with some or all of these companies on mutually beneficial economic terms, we may lose the legal right to use certain of the processes and designs which we may have employed to manufacture our products. Similarly, if we cannot license or otherwise acquire or develop new manufacturing process and product technologies that are critical to the development of our business or products, we may lose important customers because we are unable to continue providing our customers with products based on advanced manufacturing process and product technologies. We have entered into patent and intellectual property license agreements that require periodic royalty payments. In the future, we may need to obtain additional patent licenses or renew existing license agreements. We cannot assure you that these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms. If these license agreements are not obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, our business and future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly and deprive us of the technology to stay competitive. As technology is an integral part of our manufacturing process and product, we have, in the past, received communications alleging that our products or processes infringe product or manufacturing process technology rights held by others, and expect to continue to receive such communications. We are currently involved in intellectual property disputes with several companies. See “Item 8.A.7. Litigation.” There is no means of knowing all of the patent applications that have been filed in the United States or elsewhere and whether, if the applications are granted, such patents would have a material adverse effect on our business. If any third party were to make valid intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us, we may be required to: · discontinue using disputed manufacturing process technologies; · pay substantial monetary damages; · seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or · seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe third-party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or products. This could restrict us from making, using, selling or exporting some of our products, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, any litigation, whether to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations because of the management attention required and legal costs incurred. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. As of April 30, 2007, we had 1,170 U.S. patent applications pending, 1,391 Taiwan patent applications pending and 2,438 patents pending in other jurisdictions. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents or may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Our rapid introduction of new technologies and products may increase the likelihood that third parties will assert claims that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. Although we take and will continue to take steps to ensure that our new products do not infringe upon third party rights, the rapid technological changes that characterize our industry require that we quickly implement new processes and components with respect to our products. Often with respect to recently developed processes and components, a degree of uncertainty exists as to who may rightfully claim ownership rights in such processes and components. Uncertainty of this type increases the risk that claims alleging that such components or processes infringe upon third party rights may be brought against us. If our products or manufacturing processes are found to infringe upon third party rights, we may be subject to significant liabilities and be required to change our manufacturing processes or be prohibited from manufacturing certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We rely upon trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary know-how to maintain our competitive position in the TFT-LCD industry and any loss of our rights to, or unauthorized disclosure of, our trade secrets or other unpatented proprietary know-how could adversely affect our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and information, as well as continuing technological innovation in our business. The information we rely upon includes price forecasts, core technology and key customer information. Our current standard employment agreement with our employees contains a confidentiality provision which generally provides that all inventions, ideas, discoveries, improvements and copyrightable material made or conceived by the individual arising out of the employment relationship and all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the term of the relationship is our exclusive property. We cannot assure the enforceability of these types of agreements, or that they will not be breached. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. The disclosure of our trade secrets or other know-how as a result of such a breach could adversely affect our business. Also, our competitors may come to know about or determine our trade secrets and other proprietary information through a variety of methods. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of the relevant agreements, and there can be no assurance that any such disputes would be resolved in our favor. Further, others may acquire or independently develop similar technology, or if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technology or trade secrets and that could have an adverse effect on our competitive position within the TFT-LCD industry. Political, Geographical and Economic Risks Due to the location of our operations in Taiwan and the PRC, we and many of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events outside of our control, which may seriously disrupt our operations. Most of our existing manufacturing operations, and the operations of many of our customers and suppliers, are located in Taiwan, which is vulnerable to natural disasters. In 2006, approximately 30.7% of our net sales was derived from Taiwan-based customers. In addition, we have expanded our module assembly operations to the PRC since July 2002. Our module-assembly operations in the PRC, and the operations of many of our customers and suppliers in that area, may also be vulnerable to natural disasters. As a result of this geographic concentration, disruption of operations at our fabs or the facilities of our customers and suppliers for any reason, including work stoppages, power outages, water supply shortages, fire, typhoons, earthquakes or other natural disasters, could cause delays in production and shipments of our products. Any delays or disruptions could result in our customers seeking to source TFT-LCD panels from other manufacturers. For instance, our operations stopped completely for five days in September 1999, largely because of a power outage caused by a severe earthquake. After the stoppage, it took us several days to ramp-up to full operations. Shortages or suspension of power supplies have occasionally occurred, and have disrupted our operations. The occurrence of a power outage in the future could seriously hurt our business. Our manufacturing processes require a substantial amount of water. Although currently more than 80% of the water used in our production process is recycled, our production operations may be seriously disrupted by water shortages. For instance, the Hsinchu area, where one of our principal manufacturing sites is located, experienced a 19 Table of Contents drought in 2002. In response to the drought in 2002, the ROC authorities implemented water-rationing measures and began sourcing water from alternative sources, and therefore we did not encounter any water shortage. However, we may encounter droughts in the Hsinchu, Taoyuan or Taichung areas in the future, where most of our current or future manufacturing sites are located. If another drought were to occur and we or the authorities were unable to source water from alternative sources in sufficient quantity, we may be required to shut down temporarily or substantially reduce the operations of these fabs, which would seriously affect our operations. In addition, even if we were able to source water from alternative sources, our reliance on supplemental water supplies would increase our operating costs. Furthermore, the disruption of operations at our customers’ facilities could lead to reduced demand for our products. The occurrence of any of these events in the future could adversely affect our business. We have made investments in, and are exploring the possibility of expanding our businesses and operations to, or making additional investments in, the PRC, which may expose us to additional political, regulatory, economic and foreign investment risks. We have expanded our module assembly operations to the PRC and increased the registered capital of various PRC operating subsidiaries through cash injection. Depending on our business needs, we may further expand or adjust our business operations in the PRC in the future. Our businesses and operations and our future expansion or investment plans in the PRC are significantly affected by political and economic condition, regulatory control and general legal developments in the PRC and other foreign investment risks. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the structure, level of government involvement, level of development, foreign exchange control and allocation of resources. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. For the past two decades, the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the PRC economy. Although we believe these reforms will have a positive effect on our overall operations in the PRC, we cannot predict whether changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our current or future operations in the PRC. For example, the PRC government has stated publicly that it may change its monetary policy to tighten the extension of credit and discourage investments, particularly in certain industries such as real estate and construction. This change in policy may adversely affect our operations in the PRC. In addition, the interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainties. We cannot assure you that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation and enforcement, will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses and operations in the PRC. Although we have been advised that we have all the relevant government approvals required in connection with our PRC operations, additional approvals from the PRC central government may be required. We operate module assembly facilities in the Suzhou Industrial Park located in Suzhou, PRC, through our subsidiary, AU Optronics (Suzhou) Corp., Ltd. The Suzhou Industrial Park is a special economic zone established by the PRC central government with others and is under the regulation of the Suzhou Industrial Park Administrative Committee, or SIPAC. Under PRC laws and regulations, foreign investment projects require the approval of the relevant governmental authorities in the province or special economic zone in which the project is located and, in some circumstances, the approval of the relevant authorities of the PRC central government. In connection with the initial establishment and subsequent capital increases of our PRC subsidiary, we received approvals from SIPAC, which were filed by SIPAC with the State Planning Commission, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce of the central government of the PRC. We have been advised by SIPAC that such approvals and filings complete the approval process, which is consistent with the approval processes generally applicable to companies under the regulation of SIPAC, and that all necessary PRC governmental approvals in connection with the initial establishment and subsequent capital increases of our PRC subsidiary have been obtained. The interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainties, however, and there can be no assurance that all relevant authorities of the PRC central government will agree with SIPAC’s position, and it has come to our attention that additional approval from the PRC central government may be required for the initial establishment and subsequent capital increases of our PRC subsidiary. If required, we intend to obtain any such additional approval in consultation with SIPAC. In that event, we cannot assure you as to when the PRC central government will grant such approval, if at all. Because the PRC central government has significant discretion in dealing with our situation, 20 Table of Contents we cannot assure you that the PRC central government will not take action that is material and adverse to our PRC operations. In October 2006, we acquired a module-assembly facility in Songjiang, PRC as a result of our merger with QDI. We are also establishing a second module-assembly facility in the PRC, in Xiamen, Fujian Province which we expect to commence operations in the second quarter of 2007. We have received all the relevant government approvals for these facilities, but we cannot assure you that additional approvals will not be required and that such approvals, if required, will be obtained on time or at all. The current restrictions imposed by the ROC government on investments in certain related businesses may limit our ability to compete with other TFT-LCD manufacturers that are permitted to establish TFT-LCD production operations in the PRC. Many of our customers and competitors have expanded their businesses and operations to the PRC. In order to take advantage of the lower production costs in China and to establish a presence in the China market, we established module-assembly facility in Suzhou, Jiangsu Province of the PRC. We commenced operations at such facilities in July 2002. We are also establishing a second module-assembly facility in the PRC, in Xiamen, Fujian Province which we expect to commence operations in the second quarter of 2007 and through our merger with QDI, acquired a module-assembly facility in Songjiang, PRC. Module-assembly involves connecting components to the cell panel. We may further explore the possibility of investing in other businesses or operations in the PRC as and when we are legally permitted to do so. Currently, ROC laws and regulations permit investment in module-assembly operations in the PRC but, subject to certain exceptions, do not permit investments in array and cell operations. We do not know when or if such ROC laws and regulations governing investment in the PRC will be amended, and we cannot assure you that any such amendments to those regulations will permit us to invest in operations involving array and cell processes in the PRC. Disruptions in Taiwan’s political environment could seriously harm our business and the market price of our shares and ADSs. Most of our assets and operations are located in Taiwan and approximately 30.7% of our net sales is derived from customers in Taiwan in 2006. Accordingly, our business and financial condition may be affected by changes in local governmental policies and political and social instability. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The government of the PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan, and does not recognize the legitimacy of the government of the ROC. The government of the PRC has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan if Taiwan declares independence or Taiwan refuses to accept the PRC’s stated “One China” policy. In particular, the increasing influence of the Democratic Progressive Party, which has in the past formally advocated Taiwan’s independence from the PRC, including the reelection of Mr. Chen Shui-bian, a member of that party, as President of the ROC in March 2004, may increase political tensions and instability between the PRC and the ROC. In addition, on March 14, 2005, the National Peoples’ Congress of the PRC passed what is widely referred to as the “anti-secession” law, a law authorizing the PRC military to respond to efforts by Taiwan to seek formal independence. An increase in tensions between the ROC and the PRC and the possibility of instability and uncertainty could adversely affect the prices of our ADSs and our shares. It is unclear what effects any of the events described above may have on relations with the PRC. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political environment could affect our business. If economic conditions in Taiwan deteriorate, our current business and future growth would be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, the currencies of many East Asian countries, including Taiwan, have experienced considerable volatility and depreciation. The Central Bank of China, which is the central bank of the ROC, has from time to time intervened in the foreign exchange market to minimize the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar/NT dollar exchange rate and to prevent significant decline in the value of the NT dollar. NT dollars have depreciated against U.S. dollars from US$1.00 = NT$27.520 on January 2, 1997 to US$1.00 = NT$32.77 on June 26, 2007, based on the noon buying rates published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 21 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by changes in ROC government policies, taxation, inflation and interest rates in Taiwan, as well as general economic conditions in Taiwan. In addition, the banking and financial sectors in Taiwan have been seriously harmed by the general economic downturn in Asia and Taiwan in recent years, which has caused a depressed property market, and an increase in the number of companies filing for corporate reorganization and bankruptcy protection. As a result, financial institutions are more cautious in providing credit to businesses in Taiwan. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have access to credit at commercially reasonable rates of interest or at all. The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate due to the volatility of the ROC securities market. The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by the trading price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is smaller and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of trading of securities. In the past decade, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 12,495.34 in February 1990 and subsequently fell to a low of 2,560.47 in October 1990. On March 13, 2000, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index experienced a 617-point drop, which represented the single largest decrease in the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index in its history. The Taiwan Stock Exchange Index experienced a 32.3% increase in 2003, a 4.2% increase in 2004 and a 6.7% increase in 2005. During the period from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 7,823.72 on December 29, 2006, and reached a low of 6,257.80 on July 17, 2006. Over the same period, daily closing values of our shares ranged from NT$40.00 per share to NT$55.20 per share. On June 27, 2007, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 8,844.22, and the closing value of our shares was NT$56.70 per share. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability, including when relations between Taiwan and the PRC are strained. Several investment funds affiliated with the ROC government have also from time to time purchased securities from the Taiwan Stock Exchange to support the trading level of the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems, including market manipulation, insider trading and settlement defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could have an adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of our shares and ADSs. If the NT dollar or other currencies in which our sales, raw materials and components and capital expenditures are denominated fluctuate significantly against the U.S. dollar or the Japanese yen, our profitability may be seriously affected. We have significant foreign currency exposure, and are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the NT dollar and other currencies. Our sales, raw materials and components and capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and NT dollars in varying amounts. For example, in 2006, approximately 98.6% of our net sales was denominated in U.S. dollars. During the same period, approximately 21.9%, 28.8% and 49.1% of our cost of goods sold (principally raw materials and component costs) was denominated in NT dollars, Japanese yen and U.S. dollars, respectively. In addition, in 2006, approximately 26.7%, 55.2% and 13.8% of our total capital expenditures (principally for the purchase of equipment) was denominated in NT dollars, Japanese yen and U.S. dollars, respectively. From time to time, we enter into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure, but we cannot assure you that we will fully minimize the risk against exchange rate fluctuations and the impact on our results of operations. Disruptions in the international trading environment may seriously decrease our international sales. A substantial portion of our net sales is derived from sales to customers located outside of Taiwan. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, sales to our overseas customers accounted for 59.4%, 62.1% and 69.4%, respectively, of our net sales. In addition, a significant portion of our sales to customers in Taiwan is made to original equipment manufacturing service provider customers that use our display panels in the products that they manufacture on a contract basis for brand companies worldwide. We expect sales to customers outside of Taiwan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. As a result, our business will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including those caused by adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest, international economic downturns, terrorist attacks and continued military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan. These disruptions in the international trading environment may affect the demand for our 22 Table of Contents products and change the terms upon which we sell our products overseas, which could seriously decrease our international sales. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian influenza, or avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus in certain regions of Asia and Europe. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected PRC, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are based in Asia (mainly Taiwan), an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including the ROC and the PRC, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our ADSs and our Trading Market The market value of our ADSs may fluctuate due to the volatility of the securities markets. The securities markets in the United States and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors beyond our control and may be unrelated to, or disproportionate to changes in, our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Litigation of this kind could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Restrictions on the ability to deposit shares into our ADS facility may adversely affect the liquidity and price of our ADSs. The ability to deposit shares into our ADS facility is restricted by ROC law. A significant number of withdrawals of shares underlying our ADSs would reduce the liquidity of our ADSs by reducing the number of ADSs outstanding. As a result, the prevailing market price of our ADSs may differ from the prevailing market price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Under current ROC law, no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit its shares in our ADS facility without specific approval of the ROC Financial Supervisory Commission, unless: (1) we pay stock dividends on our shares; (2) we make a free distribution of shares; (3) ADS holders exercise preemptive rights in the event of capital increases for cash; or (4) investors purchase our shares, directly or through the depositary, on the Taiwan Stock Exchange, and deliver our shares to the custodian for deposit into our ADS facility, or our existing shareholders deliver our shares to the custodian for deposit into our ADS facility. With respect to (4) above, the depositary may issue ADSs against the deposit of those shares only if the total number of ADSs outstanding following the deposit will not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by the ROC Financial Supervisory Commission, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described in the subparagraph (1), (2) and (3) above. Issuance of additional ADSs under item (4) above will be permitted to the extent that previously ADSs have been cancelled. In addition, in the case of a deposit of our shares requested under item (4) above, the depositary will refuse to accept deposit of our shares if such deposit is not permitted under any legal, regulatory or other restrictions notified 23 Table of Contents by us to the depositary from time to time, which restrictions may specify blackout periods during which deposits may not be made, minimum and maximum amounts and frequencies of deposits. ADS holders will not have the same rights as our shareholders, which may affect the value of the ADSs. ADS holders’ rights as to the shares represented by such holders’ ADSs are governed by the deposit agreement. ADS holders will not be able to exercise voting rights on an individual basis. If holders representing at least 51% of our ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date instruct the depositary to vote in the same manner regarding a resolution, including the election of directors and supervisors, the depositary will cause all shares represented by the ADSs to be voted in that manner. If, at the relevant record date, the depositary does not receive instructions representing at least 51% of ADSs outstanding to vote in the same manner for any resolution, including the election of directors and supervisors, ADS holders will be deemed to have instructed the depositary or its nominee to authorize all the shares represented by the ADS holders’ ADSs to be voted at the discretion of our Chairman or his designee, which may not be in the ADS holders’ interest. Moreover, while shareholders who own 1% or more of our outstanding shares are entitled to submit one proposal to be considered at our annual general meetings, only holders representing at least 51% or more of our ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date are entitled to submit one proposal to be considered at our annual general meetings. Hence, only one proposal may be submitted on behalf of all ADS holders. ADS holders’ rights to participate in our rights offerings are limited, which could cause dilution to the holdings of ADS holders. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer ADS holders those rights unless both the distribution of the rights and the underlying securities to all our ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Although we may be eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions under the Securities Act available to certain foreign issuers for rights offerings, we can give no assurances that we will be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement for any of these rights. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution with respect to their holdings. Our issuance of stock bonuses and stock options to employees may have a dilutive effect on our ADSs. Similar to other technology companies in Taiwan, from time to time we may issue bonuses to our employees in the form of shares, valued at par, under the ROC Company Law and our articles of incorporation. Since these shares are issued at par value, the issuance of these shares may have a dilutive effect on ADSs. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we issued 88.8 million shares, 97.4 million shares and 88.6 million shares to our employees, respectively, for their services performed in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. These bonus shares, valued at par, amounted to NT$887.9 million, NT$973.6 million and NT$886.1 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006. We currently maintain two employee stock option plans, both of which we assumed as a result of the QDI merger, and pursuant to which our full-time employees of our consolidated domestic and foreign subsidiaries are eligible to receive stock option grants. As of December 31, 2006, 7,225,000 options, each exercisable for one of our shares, were outstanding. See “Item 6.B. Compensation.” Non-ROC holders of ADSs who withdraw our shares will be required to obtain a foreign investor investment identification and appoint a local custodian and agent and a tax guarantor in the ROC. Under current ROC law, if you are a non-ROC person and wish to withdraw and hold our shares from a depositary receipt facility, you will be required to obtain a foreign investor investment identification, or the Foreign Investor Investment I.D., issued in accordance with the ROC Regulations Governing Securities Investment by Overseas Chinese and Foreign Nationals, or the Investment Regulations. You will also be required to appoint an eligible agent in the ROC to open a securities trading account and a Taiwan Depository & Clearing Corporation book-entry account and a bank account, to pay ROC taxes, remit funds, exercise shareholders’ rights and perform such other functions as you may designate upon such withdrawal. In addition, you will be required to appoint a custodian bank to hold the securities in safekeeping, make confirmation and settle trades and report all relevant information. Without obtaining such Foreign Investor Investment I.D. under the Investment Regulations and 24 Table of Contents opening such accounts, the non-ROC withdrawing holder would be unable to hold or subsequently sell our shares withdrawn from the depositary receipt facility on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or otherwise. There can be no assurance that such withdrawing holder will be able to obtain the Foreign Investor Investment I.D. and open such accounts in a timely manner. Non-ROC holders of ADSs withdrawing our shares represented by ADSs are also required under current ROC law and regulations to appoint an agent in the ROC for filing tax returns and making tax payments. Such agent must meet certain qualifications set by the ROC Ministry of Finance and, upon appointment, becomes a guarantor of such withdrawing holder’s ROC tax obligations. Generally, evidence of the appointment of such agent and the approval of such appointment by the ROC tax authorities may be required as conditions to such withdrawing holder’s repatriation of the profits. There can be no assurance that such withdrawing holder will be able to appoint and obtain approval for such agent in a timely manner. The protection of the interests of our public shareholders available under our articles of incorporation and the laws governing ROC corporations is different from that which applies to a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing ROC corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our board of directors under ROC law are different from those that apply to a U.S. corporation. Directors of ROC corporations are required to conduct business faithfully and act with the care of good administrators. However, the duty of care required of an ROC corporation’s directors may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. In addition, controlling shareholders of U.S. corporations owe fiduciary duties to minority shareholders, while controlling shareholders in ROC corporations do not. The ROC Company Law also requires that a shareholder continuously hold at least 3% of our issued and outstanding shares for at least a year in order to request that a supervisor institute an action against a director on the company’s behalf. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Future sales or perceived sales of securities by us, our executive officers, directors, supervisors or major shareholders may hurt the price of our ADSs. The market price of our ADSs could decline as a result of sales of ADSs or shares or the perception that these sales could occur. As of March 31, 2007, we had an aggregate of 7,573,782,895 shares issued and outstanding which were freely tradable. If we, our executive officers, directors, supervisors or our shareholders, sell ADSs or shares, the market price for our shares or ADSs could decline. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of ADSs or shares by us, our executive officers, directors, supervisors or existing shareholders could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court in the ROC. We are a company limited by shares and incorporated under the ROC Company Law. All of our directors, supervisors and executive officers, and some of the experts named herein, are residents of Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our shares or ADSs to enforce against us or them judgments obtained outside the ROC, including those predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the ROC, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the United States federal securities laws. ITEM 