Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact our business. You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, and the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. 5 Table of Contents We have had limited operations which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. Our Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado in 1998, but did not begin its operations until April 2002. The Company through its subsidiaries currently owns (in total or in partnerships) and operates 20 adult nightclubs that offer quality live adult entertainment, restaurant and bar operations. We have a limited operating history and face the risk and uncertainties of other early-stage companies. Because of our limited operating history, we may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our services would decrease our revenues and could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that expenses precede or are not rapidly followed by increased revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our inability to obtain capital, use internally generated cash, or use our securities or debt to finance future expansion efforts could impair the growth and expansion of our business. Reliance on internally generated cash or debt to finance our operations or complete business expansion efforts could substantially limit our operational and financial flexibility. The extent to which we will be able or willing to issue securities to consummate expansions will depend on the market value of our securities from time to time and the willingness of potential investors, sellers or business partners to accept it as full or partial payment. Using securities for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our then existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use securities to make future expansions, our ability to grow through expansions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital for this purpose through debt or equity financings. Raising external capital in the form of debt could require periodic interest payments that could hinder our financial flexibility in the future. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance a successful expansion program or our other cash needs. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of any expansion. In addition to requiring funding for expansions, we may need additional funds to implement our internal growth and operating strategies or to finance other aspects of our operations. Our failure to (a) obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, (b) use internally generated cash or debt to complete expansions because it significantly limits our operational or financial flexibility, or (c) use securities to make future expansions may hinder our ability to actively pursue any expansion program we may decide to implement. In addition, if we are unable to obtain necessary capital going forward, our ability to continue as a going concern would be negatively impacted. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do so. Disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. We often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance acquisitions of additional nightclubs. Additional nightclub acquisitions are also financed by promissory notes carried by the sellers, and debt financed by company investors and related parties. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability and prevent or hamper our growth through acquisitions. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past 12 months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. The ongoing financial crisis and the loss of confidence in the stock market has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. Increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity could have a negative impact on our earnings and our ability to acquire additional nightclubs. In addition, the deteriorating general economic conditions in the United States have caused a 6 Table of Contents drop in consumer spending in general, and discretionary spending in particular. This has caused a decline in the number of patrons at our nightclubs and the amount of money spent by them. Further, those of our nightclubs located in geographical areas suffering from proportionally worse economic conditions when compared to the United States in general have experienced larger declines in operating revenues. Overall, the business environment during our 2008 fiscal year has been slightly adverse for our business and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be slightly adversely affected. Our nightclubs are acquired with a purchase price based on historical EBITDA. This results in each nightclub carrying a substantial amount of intangible value, mostly allocated to licenses and goodwill. Generally accepted accounting principals require an annual impairment review of these indefinite lived assets. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the annual impairment review resulted in an impairment loss of approximately $46 million. If difficult market and economic conditions continue over the next year and/or we experience a decrease in revenue at one or more nightclubs, we could incur an additional decline in fair value of one or more of our nightclub. This could result in another future impairment charge of up to the total value of the indefinite lived intangible assets. Our acquisitions may result in disruptions in our business and diversion of management’s attention. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of complementary nightclubs, restaurants or related operations. Any acquisitions will require the integration of the operations, products and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Such acquisitions may disrupt our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with current employees, customers and partners. We may also incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. These issuances could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization, or impairment costs for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. If management is unable to fully integrate acquired business, products or persons with existing operations, we may not receive the benefits of the acquisitions, and our revenues and stock trading price may decrease. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. One part of our growth strategy is nightclub “clustering.” Adult nightclubs tend to group together in their respective markets. We believe that clustering leads to improved brand recognition, as well as some improvement in economics of scale as costs of marketing are spread over more nightclubs. Clustering also provides the Company with the ability to disperse management expertise to more locations under their responsibility. We are subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration in areas in which we own and operate multiple nightclubs, such as adverse changes in the local economy, the local regulatory environment, and our local reputation. If we are unable to successfully diminish the impact of these risks, our profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our business operations are subject to regulatory uncertainties which may affect our ability to acquire additional nightclubs, remain in operation or be profitable. Our business is regulated by constantly changing local zoning, local and state liquor licensing, local ordinances and state and federal, time, place and manner free speech restrictions. In states in which we currently operate, liquor licenses renew annually, and are considered to be “privileged” licenses that could be subject to suspension or revocation. The adult entertainment provided by our nightclubs has elements of speech and expression and, therefore, enjoys some protection under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. However, the protection is limited to the expression of our entertainers, and not their conduct. In all states where we operate, management believes that we comply with applicable laws, regulations and ordinances governing the sale of alcohol and the operation of sexually oriented businesses. However, changes in these laws, regulations and ordinances may increase our cost of compliance therewith, or cause us to be unable to renew them, thereby reducing our profitability or prevent our nightclubs to remain in operation. There can be no assurance that local, state and/or federal licensing and other regulations will permit our nightclubs to remain in operation or profitable in the future. Further, if we are involved in costly administrative or legal proceedings to 7 Table of Contents renew our licenses, or defend against claims involving non-protected free speech, it may result in negative publicity and decreased profitability. Beginning January 1, 2008, our two Texas nightclubs became subject to a new state law requiring each nightclub to collect a $5 surcharge for every nightclub visitor. We have challenged this “patron tax” in Texas state court, and Texas is in the process of modifying the patron tax to a 10% admission fee tax. This trend is spreading to other states to enact similar surcharges or admission fee taxes. Currently, the Company is not passing this surcharge on to our customers and we are absorbing this expense. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if this surcharge continues in Texas and spreads to other states in which the Company operates. There is substantial competition in the nightclub entertainment industry, which may affect our ability to operate profitably or acquire additional nightclubs. Our ability to increase or sustain revenues is impacted by our ability to compete effectively with other nightclubs, both for nightclub acquisitions and patrons. Our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include the quality and appeal of our competitors’ nightclubs relative to our offerings, the strength of our competitors’ brands, the effectiveness of our competitors’ sales, marketing efforts and the attractiveness of their product offerings, and general consumer behaviors and preferences regarding how they choose to spend their discretionary income. Further, our competitors may have significantly greater financial and management resources than our Company. In addition, the industry is especially sensitive to ever-changing and unpredictable competitive trends and competition for general entertainment dollars which cannot be easily predicted and which are beyond our control. If we are unable to compete effectively in the market, we may be unable to attract patrons to our existing nightclubs or complete acquisitions of new nightclubs, which may prevent us from sustaining or increasing our revenues or growing our business. If we are unable to effectively promote our brands and establish a leading position in the marketplace, our business may fail. We believe that we may attract more patrons to our nightclubs and distinguish ourselves from our competition by increasing the awareness of our brands, and that the importance of brand recognition will increase over time. In order to gain brand recognition, we believe that we that must increase our marketing and advertising budgets to create and maintain brand name loyalty through the promotion and development of our affiliation with the PT’s®, Diamond Cabaret®, and Penthouse® names. We do not know whether these efforts will lead to greater brand recognition. If we are unable to effectively promote our brand and establish a leading position in the marketplace, we may be unable to attract patrons or new nightclubs for acquisitions, which may prevent us from sustaining or increasing our revenues or growing our business. Our failure to protect our brand may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our brands or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We believe that it is important for our business to achieve brand recognition. We rely primarily on trademark and trade names to achieve this. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot give assurance that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. Our business is dependent upon management and employees for continuing operations and expansion. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts and abilities of Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, and Micheal Ocello, a Director and our President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of Messrs. Lowrie and/or Ocello or our inability to recruit and train additional key personnel in a timely fashion could have a material and continuing adverse effect on our business and future prospects. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key personnel could severely and negatively impact our operations. Our current 8 Table of Contents management team is understaffed and has limited experience managing a public company subject to the SEC’s periodic reporting obligations. Hiring qualified management is difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals in the industry in which we operate. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining additional members of management if our business continues to grow. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly management personnel, would continue to materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, may have potential conflicts of interest with the Company, which may adversely affect our business. He beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our common stock, which will have an impact on all major decisions on which our stockholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of our Company. We have engaged in several transactions with Lowrie LLLP, which is controlled and majority owned by Troy Lowrie, who is a significant stockholder, and our Chairman of the Board and CEO. Conflicts of interest may arise between his duties to our Company and his duties to Lowrie LLLP, or his interest as an owner of Lowrie LLLP. Because Mr. Lowrie is a Director and the CEO of our Company, he has a duty of loyalty and care to us under Colorado law when there are any potential conflicts of interest between our Company and Lowrie LLLP. We cannot give you assurance that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Lowrie will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Lowrie could violate his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between Mr. Lowrie and us, we would have to rely on legal proceedings which could disrupt our business. Further, several of our landlords and lenders have required Mr. Lowrie’s continued management role with our Company in order to avoid a default or acceleration of our obligations under certain of our leases or loan agreements. As of March 30, 2009, Mr. Lowrie owns approximately 28% of our issued and outstanding common stock. In addition, he is our Chairman of the Board and CEO. The interests of Mr. Lowrie may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Because of his significant ownership of our common stock, Mr. Lowrie will have the ability to significantly influence virtually all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the following actions: • Election of our Directors; • Amendment of our organizational documents; • Merger of our Company or the sale of our assets or other corporate transaction; and • Control of the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Mr. Lowrie’s beneficial stock ownership may discourage potential investors from investing in shares of our common stock due to the lack of influence they could have on our business decisions, which in turn could reduce our stock price. We must comply with all licenses and permits relating to the sale of alcohol. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of alcoholic beverages. States in which we operate may have laws which may limit the availability of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages or which may provide for suspension or revocation of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages in certain circumstances. The temporary or permanent suspension or revocations of any such permits would have a material adverse effect on the revenues, financial condition and results of operations of the Company. In all states where we operate, management believes that we comply with applicable city, county, state or other local laws governing the sale of alcohol. 9 Table of Contents Activities or conduct at our nightclubs may cause us to lose necessary business licenses, expose us to liability, or result in adverse publicity, which may increase our costs, divert management’s attention from our business and cause our stockholders to lose confidence in us, thereby lowering our profitability and our stock price. We are subject to risks associated with activities or conduct at our nightclubs that are illegal or violate the terms of necessary business licenses. Our nightclubs operate under licenses for sexually oriented businesses and some protection under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. While we believe that the activities at our nightclubs comply with the terms of such licenses, and that the element of our business that constitutes an expression of free speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is protected, activities and conduct at our nightclubs may be found to violate the terms of such licenses or be unprotected under the U.S. Constitution. This protection is limited to the expression and not the conduct of an entertainer. An issuing authority may suspend or terminate a license for a nightclub found to have violated the license terms. Illegal activities or conduct at any of our nightclubs may result in negative publicity or litigation. Such consequences may increase our cost of doing business, divert management’s attention from our business and make an investment in our securities unattractive to current and potential investors, thereby lowering our profitability and our stock price. IEC has developed comprehensive policies aimed at ensuring that the operation of each nightclub is conducted in conformance with local, state and federal laws. We have a “no tolerance” policy on illegal drug use in or around the facilities. We continually monitor the actions of entertainers, waitresses and customers to ensure that proper behavior standards are met. However, such policies, no matter how well designed and enforced, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the policies’ objectives are being achieved. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems and policies, there can be no assurance that our policies will prevent deliberate acts by persons attempting to violate or circumvent them. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, management believes that our policies are reasonably effective in achieving their purposes. Our industry is viewed negatively by many for moral, religious and other reasons and, therefore, the market for our securities is smaller than for other securities and an investor may find it hard to sell our securities. We operate in an industry that is viewed negatively by many. People may object to sexually oriented entertainment for moral, religious, women’s rights or other reasons. As a result, we are exposed to risks associated with societal attitudes towards our business, both locally and nationally. Local attitudes may disproportionally affect our nightclubs in areas in which we are operating while national attitudes may affect our business generally or our stock price specifically. Because of the negative perception of our industry, the market for our securities is smaller than for securities without such negative perception. Therefore, an investor in our securities may be unable to sell our securities at an acceptable time and price, or at all. Our business plan and proposed strategy has not been independently evaluated. We have not obtained any independent evaluation of our business plan and proposed business strategy. There can be no assurance that our nightclubs or proposed strategy will generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. We may be subject to uninsured risks which, if realized, could expose us to money damages, which we may be unable to pay. We maintain insurance in amounts we consider adequate for personal injury and property damage to which our nightclubs may be subject. When available at reasonable rates, we maintain personal injury and liquor liability insurance. We currently have such personal injury liquor liability coverage in place. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be exposed to potential liabilities for money damages in excess of the coverage provided by insurance, including, but not limited to, liabilities which may be imposed pursuant to state “dram shop” statutes or common law theories of liability. In general, “dram shop” statutes provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person has the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person if it was apparent to the server that the individual being sold, served or provided with an alcoholic beverage was obviously intoxicated to the extent that he presented a clear danger to himself and others. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient to pay for any money damages that we may be found liable for, we will have to pay such excess damages using the funds needed for operation of our business, if available, thereby increasing our costs and reducing our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Provisions in our Bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and Directors, which could require us to direct funds away from our business. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our officers and Directors. We may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or Director and to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or Director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and Directors may become involved by reason of being or having been an officer or Director of our Company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business, thereby affecting our ability to maintain profitability. While the Company has obtained Directors’ and officers’ insurance to protect against this occurrence, there can be no assurance that our Directors’ and officers’ insurance will cover a claim made for indemnification or be sufficient to cover the entire amount claimed for indemnification. We could use the issuance of additional shares of our authorized stock to deter a change in control. As of March 30, 2009, we have 17,562,353 shares of common stock outstanding, out of a total of 50,000,000 shares common stock authorized, and zero shares of Series A preferred stock, out of a total of 1,000,000 shares authorized for future issuance under our Articles of Incorporation. This does not include 224 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2002 Stock Option and Stock Bonus Plan, 2,708 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2003 Stock Option and Stock Bonus Plan, and 906,667 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2004 Stock Option and Appreciation Rights Plan. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights and preferences as they may determine. Accordingly, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our common stock. This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. The ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock is a traditional anti-takeover measure. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the Board of Directors and of our Company. The issuance of additional shares would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if its doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have entered into employment agreements with Troy Lowrie and Micheal Ocello that contain features that may discourage a change of control. On December 4, 2008, we entered into five-year employment agreements with Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, and Micheal Ocello, one of our Directors and our President and Chief Operating Officer. Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements, if we terminate either of them other than for “cause,” “death,” or “disability” (as such terms are defined therein), or either of them terminates his employment for “good reason” (as such term is defined therein, which term includes termination of the officer following a change of control), we must pay the officer a severance payment equal to three times the sum of the officer’s base salary in effect upon termination plus an amount equal to the highest bonus the officer received in the three years before termination, if any. Further, the employment agreements provide that if such an officer’s employment is terminated for any reason, we must, at the officer’s election, promptly pay all outstanding debt owed to the officer and his family or issue to the officer, with his approval, the number of shares of our common stock determined by dividing (a) the outstanding principal and interest owed to the officer by (b) 50% of the last sale price of our common stock on the date of termination. Finally, Mr. Lowrie’s employment agreement provides that if Mr. Lowrie’s employment is terminated for any reason, we must also take all necessary steps to remove Mr. Lowrie as a guarantor of any of our (or our affiliates) obligations to any third party. In the event that we are not successful in doing so, we must pay to Mr. Lowrie a cash amount equal to 5% per year of the aggregate amount he is continuously guaranteeing until such time when Mr. Lowrie no longer guarantees the obligations. A change of control may trigger the consequences set forth above and the resulting costs may prevent or deter a potential acquirer from acquiring our Company, even if its doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. 11 Table of Contents We must meet the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting, which may decrease our stock price and make it harder for holders of our securities to trade in them. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. We must continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements or risk delisting of our securities, which is likely to have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock and our business. We moved from the American Stock Exchange to NASDAQ on December 28, 2007. While listed on American Stock Exchange, the Company received a warning letter on March 26, 2007 indicating that we were not in compliance with certain American Stock Exchange continued listing standards. We subsequently resolved the issue raised in the warning letter. The NASDAQ continued listing requirements require, among other things, that a majority of the members of our Board of Directors are independent and that our Audit Committee consist of three independent directors. In connection with preparing this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company determined that the composition of the Company’s Board of Directors and Audit Committee does not currently meet NASDAQ’s independence requirements. Accordingly, the Company’s stockholders do not currently have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are in compliance with all of the NASDAQ governance requirements. The Company is in the process of notifying NASDAQ about its non-compliance and actively seeking to appoint a director candidate that will bring the Company in compliance with the NASDAQ independence requirements. We may not be able to identify independent directors qualified to be appointed to our Board of Directors or who are willing to serve. If the Company is unable to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, the Company’s common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. There can be no assurance that the Company will meet the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market, or that the Company’s common stock will not be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market in the future. If our common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, it may trade on the over-the-counter market, which may be a less liquid market. In such case, our stockholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, shares of our common stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. Until our Board of Directors and Audit Committee are in compliance with the NASDAQ independence requirements, there is a risk that our stockholders and investors may lose confidence in our ability to manage our business in a manner consistent with the best interest of our stockholders. We have determined that the composition of our Board of Directors and Audit Committee does not currently meet NASDAQ’s independence requirements. In the absence of a majority of independent directors, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without independent review and approval thereof. This could present the potential for a conflict of interest between us and our stockholders generally and our executive officers, stockholders or directors. Further, the absence of a majority of independent directors may limit the quality of the decisions that are made and may result in the payment of inappropriate levels of compensation to our executive officers. Finally, because our Audit Committee does not currently meet the NASDAQ independence requirements, we are exposed to the risk that material misstatements or omissions caused by errors or fraud with respect to our financial statements or other disclosures may occur and not be detected in a timely manner or at all. In the event there are deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls, we may misreport our financial results or lose significant amounts due to misstatements caused by errors or fraud. The Company is in the process of seeking and appointing director candidates that will bring the Company in compliance with the NASDAQ independence requirements. We may not be able to identify independent directors qualified to be appointed to our Board of Directors or who are willing to serve. If we are unable to comply with the NASDAQ independence requirements, investors could lose confidence in our ability to manage our business in a manner consistent with the best interest of our stockholders, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our common stock, and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. Currently, two analyst firms cover us but there is no guarantee that these securities analysts will cover our common stock in the future. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In the past, we have raised substantial amounts of capital in private placements, and if we fail to comply with the applicable securities laws, ensuing rescission rights or lawsuits would severely damage our financial position. Our 2004 private placement consisted of securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or under any state “blue sky” law as a result of exemptions from such registration requirements. Such exemptions are highly technical in nature and if we inadvertently failed to comply with any of such exemptive provisions, investors could have the right to rescind their purchase of our securities and sue for damages. If any investors were to successfully seek such rescission or prevail in any such suit, we could face severe financial demands that could have significant, adverse affects on our financial position. Future financings may involve sales of our common stock at prices below prevailing market prices, as well as the issuance of warrants or convertible securities at a discount to market price. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase the transaction costs to sell those shares. The SEC has adopted regulations, which generally define a “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. Because the last reported trade of our company stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was at a price below $5.00 per share, our common stock is currently considered a penny stock. The SEC’s penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and the salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that before a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s agreement to the transaction. If applicable in the future, these rules may restrict the ability of brokers-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares, until our common stock no longer is considered a penny stock. Because we do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, purchases of our common stock may not be suited for investors seeking dividend income. Since our inception, we have not paid any dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In 2006, we paid $878,843 in dividends on our outstanding preferred stock. The Board of Directors has elected not to pay dividends in the future, effective November 24, 2006. We expect that future earnings applicable to the common stockholders, if any, will be used for working capital and to finance growth. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. A significant amount of common stock is subject to issuance upon exercise of securities to purchase common stock. The exercise and sale of these financial instruments could depress the market price of our common stock. A significant amount of our common stock may be eligible for sale under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act at different times in the future, and its sale could depress the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Provided that all applicable Rule 144 conditions are satisfied, we believe that stockholders holding approximately 17,698,000 shares of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock are currently eligible to sell their shares. We believe that stockholders holding the balance of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock will be eligible to sell those shares under Rule 144 in April 2009. As of March 30, 2009, we had warrants exercisable into 325,376 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of between $2.50 and $4.00 per share outstanding. The warrants are currently exercisable without limitation and expire in November 2009. We also have issued stock options convertible into an aggregate of 156,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of between $6 and $10 per share. None of the options are currently vested or exercisable but they vest and become exercisable between 2010 and 2017. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of March 30, 2009, we have 50,000,000 authorized shares of which 17,562,353 shares of common stock are issued and outstanding. Ownership could be diluted by future issuances of our stock, options, warrants or other securities. Ownership in the Company may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or the exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants or convertible notes to purchase capital stock. In particular, we may sell securities in the future in order to finance operations, expansions or particular projects or expenditures. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock. Our stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “VCGH”. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our common stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our common stock for an indefinite period of time. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. This price may be influenced by many factors, including: • Our performance and prospects; • The depth and liquidity of the market for our securities; • Sales by selling stockholders of shares issued or issuable in connection with our private placements; • Investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • Changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • General financial and other market conditions; and • Domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced, and are currently experiencing, substantial price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. If we fail to implement effective internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, or to obtain the attestation required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing the Company’s financial statements must attest to, and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. We have not yet been required to obtain the independent auditor attestation required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect our ability to obtain the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we have incurred significant time and expense in developing and implementing the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We hired experts in testing of financial reporting and system documentation to develop and implement sound internal control procedures in order to comply with the numerous financial reporting requirements. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley’s internal controls and disclosure requirements, including internal controls over our financial reporting, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant attestations or certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires publicly traded companies to obtain. As noted in Item 9A(T)., we have identified a material weakness in our financial reporting controls. We have restated our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 and for the three quarters, including March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 to properly reflect the adjustments in the financial statements. Other Risk Factors May Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions and financial and credit markets, credit availability, increased fuel costs and availability for our employees, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events (such as reports on avian flu), consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer tastes and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including, major hurricanes and regional snow storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 