Item 1A Risk Factors General Business Risks 16 Risks Relating to the Market for Our Securities 21 Item 2 Description of Property 22 Raft River – Idaho 22 Neal Hot Springs – Oregon 28 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 32 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 33 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 41 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 U.S. Geothermal Inc. and Subsidiaries Form 10-K INDEX For the Year Ended March 31, 2007 Page Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 42 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 42 Item 9B Other Information 42 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 43 Item 11 Executive Compensation 45 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 52 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 53 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 54 Independent Audit Opinion Balance Sheet Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income Statement of Cash Flows Footnote Disclosures PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS This report contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, our statements on strategy, operating forecasts, and our working capital requirements and availability. In addition, from time to time, the company or its representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward-looking statements may be included in, but are not limited to, various filings made by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), press releases or oral statements made by or with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the company. Forward-looking statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical fact and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, or “continue” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Actual results could differ materially from those projected or suggested in any forward-looking statements as a result of a wide variety of factors and conditions, including, but not limited to, the factors and conditions described in the discussions of “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Plan of Operations” in this report and in other documents the company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reader is cautioned that the company does not have a policy of updating or revising forward-looking statements and thus the reader should not assume that silence by management of the company over time means that actual events are bearing out as estimated in such forward-looking statements. All references to “dollars” or “$” are to United States dollars and all references to Cdn$ are to Canadian dollars. U.S. Geothermal Inc. (the “Company,” “GTH” or “we” or “us” or words of similar import) is in the renewable “green” energy business. Through its subsidiary, U.S. Geothermal Inc., an Idaho corporation (“Geo-Idaho,” although our references to the company include and refer to our operations through Geo-Idaho), we are engaged in the acquisition, development and utilization of geothermal resources in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. Geothermal energy is the natural heat energy stored within the earth’s crust. In some areas of the earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result from a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. Our principal focus is the development of the Raft River project, a geothermal project encompassing approximately 8.4 square miles of land located at Raft River, Idaho. As more thoroughly discussed in the sections below, the company has entered into a power purchase agreement, at 10 megawatt monthly average, with Idaho Power Company, and is in the process of developing the power plant for the first phase of production. -5- Development of Business Geo-Idaho was formed as an Idaho corporation in February 2002 to conduct geothermal resource development. On March 5, 2002 Geo-Idaho entered into a letter agreement with the previous owner, pursuant to which Geo-Idaho agreed to acquire all of the real property, personal property and permits that comprised the owner’s interest in the Raft River project. We generally refer to this real and personal property interests as the “Vulcan Property”. On December 3, 2002 the letter agreement was replaced by a formal agreement with the previous owner (the “Vulcan Agreement”), which provided for the acquisition, in stages, of 100% of the Vulcan Property in consideration for shares and warrants of Geo-Idaho and cash payments to or on behalf of the previous owner of up to $600,000 (for 100% of the Vulcan Property). Geo-Idaho also agreed that, as a condition to completing the purchase of and as an owner of the Vulcan Property, it would work to advance the Raft River Project by expending at least $200,000 for a work program (which has since been completed). By August 1, 2005, Geo-Idaho had paid the previous owner $617,000 in securities and cash payments, and had completed the work program, to bring its percentage ownership in the Vulcan Property to 100%. The Company and Geo-Idaho entered into a merger agreement on February 28, 2002, which was amended and restated on November 30, 2003, and closed on December 19, 2003. In accordance with the merger agreement, GTH acquired Geo-Idaho through the merger of Geo-Idaho with a wholly-owned subsidiary, EverGreen Power Inc., an Idaho corporation formed for that purpose. Geo-Idaho is the surviving corporation and the subsidiary through which GTH conducts operations. As part of this acquisition, we changed our name to U.S. Geothermal Inc. Because the former Geo-Idaho shareholders became the majority holders of GTH, the transaction is treated as a “reverse takeover” for accounting purposes. We intend to develop the Raft River project in two or more phases. For Phase 1 of development at Raft River, we intend to commercialize the existing production wells and energy field by construction and operation of a 13 megawatt binary cycle geothermal power plant that will provide the energy to be delivered under a power purchase agreement with Idaho Power Company. We have signed an engineering, procurement and construction agreement for the first power plant, and bids have been solicited from several engineering firms to provide engineering, procurement and construction services on all remaining aspects of Phase 1 that are not included in this agreement. Final engineering, equipment procurement and construction is anticipated to take approximately 14 to 16 months from April 25, 2006, and the initial power plant is anticipated to begin production by the end of the third quarter of 2007. The total Phase 1 construction and development costs are expected to be $39 to 41 million for the construction of a geothermal power plant capable of producing 13 megawatts of power. We have completed project financing for Phase 1 of the Raft River project, whereby Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., will contribute $34 million in cash and we have contributed $5 million in cash and approximately $1.5 million in production and injection wells and geothermal leases to Raft River Energy I LLC, the Phase 1 project joint venture company. It is anticipated that Phase 2 will involve the construction and operation of two additional 13 megawatt power plants. Strong regional interest in geothermal power has resulted in several utilities entering into discussions with us to purchase the electrical power output from the two additional plants. Subject to drilling confirmation of the availability of sufficient geothermal -6- resource, the output from all three power plants at Raft River could be as much as 39 megawatts. We anticipate that the Unit 2 power plant may utilize the geothermal resource within the Unit 1 joint venture boundaries. Without the agreement and consent of our Unit 1 joint-venture partner, Raft River Holdings, we cannot fully develop the Unit 1 geothermal resource without incurring increased development costs and delays. Announced on September 5, 2006, property for a second geothermal project at Neal Hot Springs in eastern Oregon near the Idaho Border was acquired by the Company. The new property consists of 8.5 square miles of geothermal energy and surface rights and was leased from a private, third party. The property has an identified geothermal resource and was recently made part of U.S. Geothermal’s submittal to Idaho Power Company’s Request for Proposals for electricity produced from geothermal sources. On February 6, 2007, a lease was entered into with Cyprus Gold Exploration Corporation (“Cyprus”), a subsidiary of Phelps Dodge Corporation (NYSE: PD), for and undivided interest in geothermal rights associated with 4,760 acres (7.4 square miles) at Neal Hot Springs. This lease adds 758 acres (1.2 square miles) of new area to the lease announced on September 5, 2006, and overlaps both surface and undivided geothermal rights that were previously acquired at the site. With the Cyprus lease, U.S. Geothermal has increased its total Neal Hot Springs project holdings to 6,167 acres (9.6 square miles) and increased ownership of the overlapping area to a majority of the geothermal rights in that area. The Cyprus lease has a primary term of 10 years that extends thereafter for as long as commercial production is maintained and includes annual rental and production royalty payment provisions. U.S. Geothermal has ongoing negotiations with additional geothermal rights holders in the area. Plan of Operations The Company’s plan of operations for the next 12 months includes the following elements: (1) Complete plant construction for the Raft River Unit 1 power plant. (2) Begin commercial power generation at Raft River Unit 1. (3) Negotiate RFP full output contracts with Idaho Power Company for Units 1 and 3 at Raft River and Units and 2 at Neal Hot Spring. (4) Negotiate full output contract with Eugene Water and Electric Board for Raft River Unit 2. (5) Conduct an expanded geoscience program to target new production zones at Raft River. (6) Plan, permit and drill production and injection wells for Raft River Unit 2. (7) Plan, permit and drill initial wells at Neal Hot Spring. (8) Continue to seek and acquire additional geothermal resource properties and/or operations. Cash Requirements Next Six Months We believe our cash and liquid investments at March 31, 2007, added to our recent private placement completed June 5, 2007, is adequate to fund our general operating and development activities through March 31, 2009. The Company obtained project capital to construct Raft River power plant through a partnership arrangement. Through the arrangement, equity funds of approximately $34 million were made available for the construction of the project. Total capital -7- expenditures for the phase one project are currently estimated to be between $39 and $41 million. The majority of the funds needed for the project will be provided by existing funds and through the partnership arrangement. If additional funds are needed, we anticipate that the equity may be raised through the issuance of shares, exercise of existing outstanding warrants, and/or through the sale of ownership interest in tax credits and benefits. Material Acquisitions/Development The main power island of the power plant’s construction is under the direction of Ormat Nevada Inc., a subsidiary of Ormat Technologies Inc. (NYSE: ORA). Additional associated construction activities including the pipelines, transmission connection and production pump installation are under the direction of the Company with services being provided by contractors. Plant and project construction is proceeding on schedule and budget, and the following status is reported: Industrial Builders of Ontario, Oregon was awarded the mechanical construction contract by Ormat, began fabrication work in February and is assembling the plant components, The electrical construction contract was awarded to Merit Electric Incorporated in May, All major equipment has been delivered to the site and has been set on it’s foundations, Piping and electrical connections are underway, The control room and motor control center building has been erected, and The cooling tower is approximately 35% complete. In addition, Raft River Rural Electric Cooperative has finished construction of the 3.2 -mile power transmission line that connects the power plant to the Bonneville Power Administration substation at Bridge, Idaho. Equipment upgrades to the substation including a breaker, relays, and communications systems are underway. U.S. Geothermal has awarded a $1.3 million dollar contract to ITT Industries/Goulds Pumps to provide line-shaft geothermal production pumps for the project. The first production pump has been delivered. The well improvement drill program, which began in August 2006, has been competed. Four existing wells were enhanced either by deepening or adding directional legs to improve their production or injection characteristics. Two new wells were drilled to expand the geothermal resource for the planned second 13 megawatt net output power plant at Raft River. Resource utilization studies have determined that production well RRG-3 will be converted to an injection well and that injection well RRG-7 will be converted to a production well. The hot fluid production capacity of each of the wells was determined from the results of historical flow tests using estimates provided by the independent engineering and reservoir consultant firm GeothermEx of Redmond, CA. The Company is currently conducting additional field flow tests to gather more information of the production and injection capacity of the well field and expects to be able to refine the pump settings and number of wells required to be placed in service for the fueling of the 13 megawatt power plant based on this current test work. On August 9, 2006, we completed project financing for Phase 1 of the Raft River project. In connection with the project financing, we entered into (i) the Membership Admission Agreement, dated August 9, 2006, among Raft River Energy I LLC, a Delaware limited liability -8- company, us and Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, (ii) the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of Raft River Energy I LLC, dated as of August 9, 2006, among Raft River Energy I LLC, Raft River I Holdings, LLC and us, and (iii) the Management Services Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2006, between Raft River Energy I LLC and U.S. Geothermal Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and our wholly-owned subsidiary. Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., will contribute in staged payments a total of $34 million in cash and we will contribute $5 million in cash and approximately $1.5 million in production and injection wells and geothermal leases to Raft River Energy I LLC, the Phase 1 project joint venture company. Pursuant to the Management Services Agreement, we will provide operating and management services to Raft River Energy I LLC. We expect to receive annual cash distributions up to $1.6 million each year for the first four project years pursuant to the Management Services Agreement and the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement. The cash distributions made to us will come from four sources: income-related cash distributions from our investment in Raft River Energy I LLC, royalty income from our energy leases to Raft River Energy I LLC, a management fee for providing operating and maintenance services, and lease income from our cooling water leases to Raft River Energy I LLC. After the first four years, we will receive a nominal percentage of the distributable Raft River Energy I LLC cash flow until specified rates of return are achieved by our partner, at which time we will receive a little more than half of the distributable cash flow. If we develop the economic equivalent of 30 megawatts of power sales during the initial 20-year term of the power purchase agreement then, at the end of year 20, our share of the distributable cash flow increases to a significant majority of cash flow for the remainder of the Phase I project life. On May 25, 2006, GTH signed a drilling contract with Union Drilling for the re-work of four of the wells previously drilled for Phase I, and for the drilling of two additional wells to be included in Phases I and II of the Raft River project. The total cost of Phase I and II drilling completed by Union Drilling was approximately $16,600,000 and has been completed, with $5 million attributed to the Phase I project and $11.6 million attributed to the development of production and injection well capacity for a proposed second 13 megawatt power plant unit under consideration for development in Phase II. The results of current well test work are expected to determine the amount of potential well production actually needed for the Phase I power plant. On February 22, 2006, we received and signed a letter of intent from Eugene Water and Electric Board, of Eugene, Oregon, for Eugene Water and Electric Board’s purchase of the full 13 megawatt electrical output from the second planned power plant of Phase 2 (Unit 2), and we are currently negotiating a draft power purchase agreement with Eugene Water and Electric Board and expect to finalize it by July 2007. Upon execution of the Eugene Water and Electric Board power purchase agreement, and if Unit 1 is successful in the Idaho Power Company Request for Proposal, then the total output from Units 1 and 2 of the Raft River power plants will be 26 megawatts from two plants, instead of the originally planned 30 megawatts from three plants, resulting in substantial capital and operating cost savings through improved economies of scale. We will seek additional power purchase agreements for future phases, which may involve drilling new wells and determining the production capacity of those wells for additional plant construction. At this time it is not possible to estimate if or when future wells will be drilled. -9- Future phases may involve additional power purchase agreements with Idaho Power Company or other utilities in the service area and may or may not include terms similar to the Phase 1 power purchase agreement. Material Changes in Employees At May 31, 2007, the Company had 16 full-time employees (9 – administrative and project development, 7 – field and plant operations). During the last fiscal period, the CEO and CFO positions were increased from part-time to full time. Two additional administrative positions were needed for accounting, financial reporting and systems documentation. We have added 7 field and plant operating employees as part of the on-going operating requirements of the first power plant. The Company also continuously considers acquisition opportunities; if the company is successful in making acquisitions, additional management and administrative staff may be added. The Company did not experience any labor disputes or labor stoppages during the current fiscal year. Principal Products Upon reaching commercial production, the principal product will be based upon electrical power produced from the utilization of geothermal resources. The primary product will be the direct sale of power generated by our interests in our geothermal power plants. Some revenues will be earned through consulting and management fees obtained for our services provided to other interests. All power plants currently being considered and currently under construction are for sites in the Pacific Northwest of the United States of America. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Geothermal energy is natural heat energy stored within the earth’s crust at economically accessible depth. In some areas of the earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result form a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. There are four major components (or factors) to a geothermal resource: 1. Heat source and temperature – The economic viability of a geothermal resource is related to the amount of heat generated. The higher the temperature, the more valuable the geothermal resource is. 2. Fluid – A geothermal resource is commercially viable only when the system contains water and/or steam as a medium to transfer the heat energy to the surface. 3. Permeability – The fluid present underground must be able to move. In general, significant porosity and permeability within the rock formation are needed to create a viable reservoir. 4. Depth – the cost of development increases with depth, as do resource temperatures. Closeness of the reservoir to the surface is therefore a key factor in the economic valuation of a geothermal resource. -10- The final product of electrical power will be directly produced through the utilization of geothermal resources; however, these resources are not a direct component of the final product. Various forms of testing have been conducted at both the Raft River, Idaho and the Neal Hot Springs, Oregon sites. All testing performed to date indicates that the resources at both sites are viable for the production of geothermal power. Unless major geological changes occur that impact the geothermal reservoirs, the condition of the existing resources is expected to remain consistent over time. Each power plant constructed will have an impact on the temperature and pressure of the tapped reservoir. The extent of this impact and the results of future drilling exploration to determine the actual extent of the reservoir will be a limiting factor on the number of plants that can be constructed at a particular reservoir. Significant Patents, Licenses, Permits, Etc. The Company’s permitting activities are continuing as the project develops. A Conditional Use Permit for the first two power plants was issued by the Cassia County Planning and Zoning Commission on April 21, 2005. The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality issued the Air Quality Permit to Construct on May 26, 2006. The Department of Army Corps of Engineers and the Idaho Department of Water Resources, after the submittal of a joint application by the Company, have determined that the Raft River project does not need to obtain a Section 404 Clean Water Act permit for the project as it is currently designed. Various other county, state and federal permits will be required for the project, including a Cassia County Building Permit. An ALTA land title survey that covers all lands owned or leased by RREI has been completed, and Land America Commercial Services issued an ALTA Extended title insurance policy for the project on December 6, 2006. A Wastewater Reuse Permit was issued by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on February 23, 2007. The Reuse permit will allow the land application of the non-contact cooling water from Unit 1 power plant cooling towers. The Transmission Business Line has issued a categorical exclusion for modification of the existing substation from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. This exclusion fulfills federal environmental permitting requirements for the substation work. Seasonality of Business Since we are in a developmental stage, there has been no operating trend information generated to date. When the plant is operational, seasonal changes are not expected to have a significant impact on elements that will drive operational revenues or related costs. During plant development, some construction activities could be impacted by inclement weather that can occur during the winter months. Industry Practices/Needs for Working Capital During the development stage of operations, high levels of working capital are committed, either directly or indirectly to the construction efforts. After normal production operations have been established, the needs of working capital are expected to be low. This assumption is primarily based upon the projected revenues and relatively low levels of expected operational expenses. The Company is expecting to be highly involved in development activities for the next 5 to 10 years. -11- Dependence on Single Customer Ultimately, the market for electrical power is vast; however, the number of entities that can physically, logistically and economically acquire the commodity in large quantities in our area of operations is limited. Currently, the Company has a power purchase agreement with one customer (Idaho Power Company). Negotiations are in process to sell to another customer and expand sales to Idaho Power Company. During full scale operations, it is expected that the Company will have a small number of direct customers that may amount to less than 4 or 5. Competitive Conditions Although the market for different forms of energy is large and dominated by very powerful players, we perceive our industrial competition to be independent power producers and in particular those producers who provide “green” renewable power. Our definition of green power is electricity derived from a source that does not pollute the air, water or earth. Sources of green power, in addition to geothermal, include wind, solar, biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric. A number of states have instituted renewable portfolio standards (“RPS”) that require utilities to purchase a minimum percentage of their power from renewable sources. For example, RPS statutes in California and Nevada require 20% renewable, and according to the Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy department, utilities in 34 states nationwide are providing their customers with the opportunity to purchase green, renewable power through premium pricing programs. As a result, we believe green power is a niche sub-market, in which many power purchasers are increasing or committing to increase their investments. Accordingly, the conventional energy producers do not provide direct competition. In the Pacific Northwest there are currently no geothermal facilities. There exist a number of wind farms, as well as biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric facilities. However, the Company believes that the combination of greater reliability and baseload generation from geothermal, access to infrastructure for deliverability, and a low "full life" cost will allow it to successfully compete for long term power purchase agreements. Factors that can influence the overall market for our product include some of the following: number of market participants buying and selling; availability and cost of transmission; amount of electricity normally available in the market; fluctuations in electricity supply due to planned and unplanned outages of competitors’ generators; fluctuations in electricity demand due to weather and other factors; cost of fuel used by generators, which could be impacted by efficiency of generation technology and fluctuations in fuel supply; environmental regulations that impact us and our competitors; extension of the production tax credits past December 31, 2008; relative ease or difficulty of developing and constructing new facilities; and credit worthiness and risk associated with buyers. -12- Environmental Compliance As the Company’s design and permitting activities have progressed, it has further refined and clarified the environmental issues for which it will have to demonstrate compliance in the construction and operation of a geothermal facility at Raft River. The relevant legislation includes: Clean Air Act, Endangered Species Act, Clean Water Act, Rivers and Harbors Act, National Historic Preservation Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Idaho Solid Waste Facilities Act and the IDAPA Drilling for Geothermal Resource Rules. In preparation for project financing, a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment was completed by Kleinfelder on October 21, 2005. The Phase I assessment identified two underground storage tanks, which have since been removed. We believe that a geothermal facility can be designed, constructed and placed into operation at Raft River that will meet environmental compliance requirements. At this time, the company does not believe that the cost of compliance at the federal, state and local levels will be significant. During the Department of Energy’s development of the Raft River project in the early 1980’s, a multi-year survey of land, plant, animal, archeological, weather, and human health was undertaken. The Department of Energy published an extensive report in 1982. We contacted the Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service regarding any plants or animals in the region that are listed as threatened or endangered species, and received a reply stating that there are no issues identified for the project that require consultation under Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. Financial Information about Geographic Areas As described in detail in the Property section, the Company’s Phase I power plant scheduled to be placed into service in October 2007 is located in the Raft River Area in the south eastern part of the State of Idaho. Similar plants are in the planning stages at the same location. Also, land acquisitions and rights have been obtained to explore the development and construction of power plants in the south eastern part of the State of Oregon. Available Information We file all applicable financial reports required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We make filings available to the general public. Copies can be obtained of any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the SEC’s public reference facilities by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Copies can be requested of these documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at its principal office at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549-1004. The SEC maintains an Internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other -13- information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our SEC filings are accessible through the Internet at that website. We also file disclosure information as required by the British Columbia Securities Commission and the TSX Venture Exchange. This information can be found at the following Web site: www.sedar.com. Governmental Approvals and RegulationGTH is subject to both federal and state regulation in respect of the production, sale and distribution of electricity. Federal legislation includes: The Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Power Act, as well as the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA") and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Because GTH is defined as an independent power producer under the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"), the relevant aspects of federal legislation are that its electrical generating facilities qualify under the policy set forth under PURPA which encourages alternative energy sources such as geothermal, wind, biomass, solar and cogeneration. The State of Idaho also regulates electricity through the Idaho Public Utility Commission ("IPUC"). Regulated utilities have the exclusive right to distribute and sell electricity within their service area. They may purchase electricity in the wholesale market from independent producers like GTH. The IPUC, in accordance with Federal PURPA legislation has the authority to set the rules and regulations governing the sale of electricity generated from alternative energy sources. Regulated utilities are required to purchase electricity on an avoided cost basis from qualifying facilities. Currently, the IPUC defines such a facility as having an average output capacity of 10 megawatt monthly average and a contract term of up to 20 years. All PURPA contracts in Idaho are subject to the approval of the IPUC. GTH is not required to market any of the electricity that it may generate at Raft River to Idaho utilities; it can transmit and sell its electricity in another state. Nonetheless, GTH initially signed three 10 megawatt power purchase agreements (“PPA”) with the Idaho Power Company (“Idaho Power”). On May 8, 2006, GTH submitted proposals to Idaho Power in response to their “Request for Proposal for Geothermal Power”. The Company expects that under a new PPA with Idaho Power, which would replace the current PPA, the Unit 1 power plant will be allowed to sell its full output capacity of up to 13 megawatt annual average, instead of being capped at 10 average megawatts as mandated under the current PPA. This 30% increase in plant output would be achieved without major additional capital investment and is expected to decrease the operating cost per kilowatt-hour. With carbon regulation widely anticipated to increase the cost of power sourced from coal, and limited opportunities to purchase baseload geothermal power, the company has found that utilities across the Western United States have been eager to discuss power purchases from its Raft River geothermal resource. As a result of the increased interest, U.S. Geothermal elected to withdraw its Unit 2 and Unit 3 Idaho Power PPAs without submitting them to the IPUC for approval in order to pursue larger capacity PPAs with other utilities. With the concurrence of Idaho Power, the Unit 2 and Unit 3 10 megawatt contracts have been voided without further obligation on either party. -14- Eugene Water and Electric Board (“EWEB”), from Eugene, Oregon and U.S. Geothermal have signed a letter of intent for EWEB to purchase the full 13 megawatt electrical output of Raft River Unit 2. The parties have exchanged a draft PPA and intend to complete negotiations by July 2007. Upon execution of the EWEB PPA, and if Unit 1 is successfully negotiated with Idaho Power Request for Proposal, then the total output from the Unit 1 and Unit 2 Raft River power plants will be 26 megawatts from two plants, instead of the originally planned 30 megawatts from three plants, resulting in substantial capital and operating cost savings through improved economy of scale. The point of sale for the PPA will be at the Bridge Substation, with EWEB negotiating a swap with the Bonneville Power Administration to take delivery in Oregon. In addition, the strong regional interest in geothermal power has resulted in several utilities from California to Washington entering into discussions with U.S. Geothermal to purchase the electrical power output of Unit 3. Subject to drilling confirmation of sufficient geothermal resource, the power plant output from three units at Raft River would be 39 megawatts, instead of the maximum 30 megawatts under the previous Idaho Power PPA provisions. The Company will require the approval of various federal, state and local authorities for construction of future geothermal facilities at Raft River. These authorities include the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Environmental Protection Agency, Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Idaho Bureau of Hazardous Materials, Idaho State Historical Society, Cassia County and the Southern Idaho Regional Solid Waste District. We have retained Kleinfelder Inc. of Boise, Idaho, an independent environmental and regulatory consultant, to advise GTH as to the siting and design for purpose of governmental approvals. Additionally, David Evans & Associates of Boise, Idaho is providing consulting and engineering services for transmission and interconnection issues and the preparation of the application for a conditional use permit. Centra Consulting, Inc. of Boise, Idaho has been retained to assist with State of Idaho air quality and cooling water reuse permitting. Environmental Credits As a “green” power producer, environmental-related credits, such as renewable energy credits or carbon credits, may become available for sale to power companies (to allow them to meet their “green” power requirements) or to businesses which produce carbon based pollution. If available, these credits will belong exclusively to us, and may provide an additional source of revenue. On July 29, 2006, GTH signed a $4.6 million renewable energy credits purchase and sales agreement with Holy Cross Energy, a Colorado cooperative electric association. Holy Cross Energy will purchase the renewable energy credits associated with Phase 1 power production from 2008 to 2017. We retain the renewable energy credits associated with power production from Phase 1 after 2017. We expect to receive a majority of the annual revenue from the ten-year renewable energy credits sales arrangement with Holy Cross Energy. -15- ITEM 1A. Risk Factors General Business Risks We have a limited operating history, have incurred losses to date, and cannot give any assurance that we can ever attain profitability. Our company has been engaged in limited activities in the geothermal business since Geo-Idaho’s incorporation in February 2002. As a result of our brief operating history, our operating results from historical periods are not readily comparable to and may not be indicative of future results. We have not generated revenues from operations to date, and cannot give any assurance that we will be able to generate revenues in the future. For the years ended March 31, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we incurred net losses of ($164,909), ($676,398), ($1,830,421), ($1,523,385), and ($1,792,584) respectively. At March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2007, we had accumulated deficits of ($5,232,535) and ($7,025,115), respectively. We expect to incur losses for at least the next 6 months. We cannot give you any assurance that we will soon make a profit or that we will ever make a profit. Our future performance depends on our ability to establish that the geothermal resource is economically sustainable. Geothermal resource exploration and development involves a high degree of risk. The recovery of the amounts shown for geothermal properties and related deferred costs on our financial statements, as well as the execution of our business plan generally, is dependent upon the existence of economically recoverable and sustainable reserves. Expansion of the production of power from Raft River is not certain and depends on successful drilling and discovery of additional geothermal hydrothermal resources in quantities and containing sufficient heat necessary to economically fuel future plants. We have a need for substantial additional financing and will have to significantly delay, curtail or cease operations if we are unable to secure such financing. We require substantial additional financing to fund the cost of continued development of the Raft River project and other operating activities, and to finance the growth of our business, including the construction and commissioning of a power generation facility. We may not be able to obtain the needed funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, significant dilution to our current shareholders may occur and new investors may get rights that are preferential to current shareholders. Alternatively, we may have to bring in a joint venture partner to fund further development work, which would result in reducing our interest in the project. We may be subject to liquidated damages in the event that a resale registration statement is not declared effective by November 5, 2007. On June 5, 2007, we completed a private placement of 9,090,900 shares of common stock at a price of Cdn $2.20 per share, for gross proceeds to the company of Cdn $19,999,980. Upon completion of the placement, the company had 53,092,612 shares issued and outstanding. In connection with the offering, we agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than July 30, 2007 and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to become effective and remain effective for two years. In the event the registration statement is not effective by November 5, 2007, the purchasers in the private placement are entitled to receive, as liquidated damages, 0.1 common shares for each common share purchased -16- We may not be able to fully develop the geothermal resource within the Unit 1 joint venture boundaries. Without the agreement and consent of our Unit 1 joint-venture partner, Raft River Holdings, we cannot fully develop the geothermal resource without incurring increased development costs and delays. It is very costly to place geothermal resources into commercial production. Before the sale of any power can occur, it will be necessary to construct a gathering and disposal system, a power plant, and a transmission line, and considerable administrative costs would be incurred, together with the drilling of additional wells. For Phase I, we have estimated these costs to be around US $39,000,000 to be incurred over an eighteen month period. Future expansion of power production at Raft River and development of new power production capability at Neal Hot Springs may result in significantly increased capital costs related to increased production and injection well drilling and higher costs for labor and materials. To fund expenditures of this magnitude, we may have to find a joint venture participant with substantial financial resources. There can be no assurance that a participant can be found and, if found, it would result in the Company having to substantially reduce its interest in the project. We may not be able to manage our growth. Significant growth in our operations will place demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources, and the increased scope of our operations will present challenges to us due to increased management time and resources required and our existing limited staff. Our future performance and profitability will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operational, financial and administrative functions of Raft River and other acquired properties into our operations, to hire additional personnel and to implement necessary enhancements to our management systems to respond to changes in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our inability to integrate acquired properties, to hire additional personnel or to enhance our management systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we incur material debt to fund our business, we could face significant risks associated with such debt levels. We will need to procure significant additional financing to construct, commission and operate a power plant at Raft River in order to generate and sell electricity. If this financing includes the issuance of material amounts of debt, this would expose GTH to risks including, among others, the following: a portion of our cash flow from operations would be used for the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness and would not be available for financing capital expenditures or other purposes; a significant level of indebtedness and the covenants governing such indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business because certain activities or financing options may be limited or prohibited under the terms of agreements relating to such indebtedness; a significant level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to defaults by the purchasers of electricity or in the event of a downturn in our business because of fixed debt service obligations; and the terms of agreements may require us to make interest and principal payments and to remain in compliance with stated financial covenants and ratios. If the -17- requirements of such agreements were not satisfied, the lenders would be entitled to accelerate the payment of all outstanding indebtedness and foreclose on the collateral securing payment of that indebtedness, which would likely include our interest in the project. In such event, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available or could obtain the financing required to meet our obligations, including the repayment of outstanding principal and interest on such indebtedness. The success of our business relies on retaining our key personnel. We are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel J. Kunz, our Chief Financial Officer, Kerry D. Hawkley, our Chief Operating Officer, Douglas J. Glaspey, and Kevin Kitz, our Vice President – Project Development. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect upon us. GTH has executed employment agreements with these persons but does not have key-man insurance on any of them. Our development activities are inherently very risky. The high risks involved in the development of a geothermal resource cannot be over-stated. The development of a geothermal resource is such that there cannot be any assurance of success. Exploration costs are not fixed, and the resource cannot be relied upon until substantial development has taken place, which entails high exploration and development costs. The costs of development drilling are subject to numerous variables which could result in substantial cost overruns. Drilling for geothermal resource may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays of equipment and services. If our drilling activities are not successful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the substantial risk that wells drilled will not be productive, or may decline in productivity after commencement of production, hazards such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations, pressures, downhole conditions, mechanical failures, blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of well fluids, pollution and other physical and environmental risks are inherent in geothermal exploration and production. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not fully insure against all risks associated with our business either because such insurance is not available or because the cost of such coverage is considered prohibitive. The occurrence of an event that is not covered, or not fully covered, by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of governmental regulation could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on -18- taxation, the exploration for and development, production and distribution of electricity, and environmental and safety matters. Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste and other matters. Such laws and regulations may increase the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our geothermal wells, the power plant and other facilities. In addition, our operations are subject to complex environmental laws and regulations adopted by federal, state and local jurisdictions where we operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially discharge such materials into the environment in any of the following ways: from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; leakage from gathering systems, pipelines, power plant and storage tanks; damage to geothermal wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and blowouts, cratering and explosions. In addition, the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments may be required. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business. In addition, because we acquire interests in properties that have been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by such former operators. Industry competition may impede our growth. The electrical power generation industry, of which geothermal power is a sub-component, is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully or grow our business. We compete in areas of pricing, grid access and markets. The industry in the Pacific Northwest, in which the Raft River project is located, is complex as it is composed of public utility districts, cooperatives and investor-owned power companies. Many of the participants produce and distribute electricity. Their willingness to purchase electricity from an independent producer may be based on a number of factors and not solely on pricing and surety of supply. Claims have been made that some geothermal plants cause seismic activity and related property damage. There are approximately two dozen geothermal plants operating within a fifty-square-mile region in the area of Anderson Springs, in Northern California, and there is general agreement that the operation of these plants causes a generally low level of seismic activity. Some residents in the Anderson Springs area have asserted property damage claims against those plant operators. There are significant issues whether the plant operators are liable, and to date no court has found in favor of such claimants. While we do not believe the area of the Raft River and Neal Hot Springs projects or our intended operation of a power plant will present the same geological or seismic risks, there can be no assurance that we would not be -19- subject to similar claims and litigation, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Actual costs of construction or operation of a power plant may exceed estimates used in negotiation of power purchase and power financing agreements. The company’s initial power purchase contract is under rates established by the Idaho Public Utility Commission, using an “avoided-cost” model for cost of construction and operating costs of a power plant. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, the company may not be able to build the contemplated power plant, or if constructed, may not be able to operate profitably. The Company’s financing agreements provide for a priority payback to our partner. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, we may not be able to operate profitably or receive the planned share of cash flow and proceeds from the project. Payments under our initial power purchase agreement may be reduced if we are unable to forecast our production adequately. Under the terms of our initial power purchase agreement, if we do not deliver electricity output within 90% to 110% of our forecasted amount, payments for the amount delivered will be reduced, possibly significantly. If the company consistently mis-forecasts its output, its revenues will be reduced, and we may not be able to operate profitably. There are some risks for which we do not or cannot carry insurance. Because our current operations are limited in scope, GTH carries public liability insurance and directors’ and officers’ liability coverage, but does not currently insure against any other risks. As its operations progress, GTH will acquire additional coverage consistent with its operational needs, but GTH may become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards against which it cannot insure or cannot insure at sufficient levels or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. In particular, coverage is not available for environmental liability or earthquake damage. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interests arising out of their relationships with other companies. Several of our directors and officers serve (or may agree to serve) as directors or officers of other companies or have significant shareholdings in other companies. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which GTH may participate, the directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. If a conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such a participation or such terms. From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. Under the laws of the State of Delaware, the directors of GTH would be required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of GTH. -20- In determining whether or not GTH would participate in a particular program and what interest GTH would acquire in it, the directors would primarily consider the degree of risk to which GTH would be exposed and its financial position at that time. Risks Relating To the Market for Our Securities A significant number of shares of our common stock are eligible for public resale. If a significant number of shares are resold on the public market, the share price could be reduced and could adversely affect our ability to raise needed capital. Currently, the number of shares in the general market is approximately 53,092,612. The market price for our common stock could decrease significantly and our ability to raise capital could be adversely affected by the availability and resale of such a large number of shares in a short period of time. Our officers and directors hold sufficient shares that acting collectively they may be able to influence the outcome of matters submitted to the shareholders. Our officers and directors own in the aggregate approximately 13% of the company’s securities, on a fully diluted basis. If the officers and directors were to act collectively, assuming they continue to own all of their shares, there is a substantial likelihood that they would be able to influence the election of the directors of the company and the outcome of all corporate actions requiring the approval of the shareholders, such as mergers and acquisitions, in their own interests and to the detriment of the other shareholders. The possible issuance of substantial amounts of additional shares without shareholder approval may dilute the percentage ownership of our shareholders. There are 53,092,612 shares of our common stock outstanding and 4,671,973 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. There are 100,000,000 shares of our common stock authorized for issuance. All of our authorized shares in excess of those currently outstanding may be issued without any action or approval by our shareholders and may dilute the percentage ownership of our current shareholders. Because the public market for shares of our common stock is limited, investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock on the TSX Venture Exchange and on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board in the United States, and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. The development of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers that are able to sell their shares and market makers that are willing to make a market in the shares. Under these circumstances, the market bid and ask prices for the shares may be significantly influenced by the decisions of the market makers to buy or sell the shares for their own account, which may be critical for the establishment and maintenance of a liquid public market in our common stock. Market makers are not required to maintain a continuous two-sided market and are free to withdraw firm quotations at any time. We cannot give you any assurance that an active public trading market for the shares will develop or be sustained. The price of our common stock is volatile, which may cause investment losses for our shareholders. The market for our common stock is highly volatile, having ranged in the last fiscal year from a low of CDN$0.75 to a high of CDN$1.79 on the TSX Venture Exchange and from a low of US$0.70 to a high of US$1.65 on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The -21- trading price of our common stock on the TSX Venture Exchange and on the OTCBB is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, and general economic and market conditions. In addition, statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to our market or relating to our company could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The highly volatile nature of our stock price may cause investment losses for our shareholders. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock,” which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock.” The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on NASDAQ, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Prior to a transaction in a penny stock, a broker-dealer is required to: deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market; provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; explain the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; provide monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account; and, make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our stock and investors may find it more difficult to sell their shares. 