Item 1A Risk Factors General Business Risks 18 Risks Relating to the Market for Our Securities 26 Item 2 Description of Property 28 Raft River – Idaho 28 Raft River Unit I 30 Neal Hot Springs – Oregon 34 San Emidio – Nevada 36 Gerlach – Nevada 38 Granite Creek – Nevada 39 Boise Administration Office - Idaho 39 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 39 Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 39 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 40 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 42 U.S. Geothermal Inc. and Subsidiaries Form 10-K INDEX For the Year Ended March 31, 2008 Page Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 42 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 52 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting And Financial Disclosure 52 Item 9A Controls & Procedures 52 Item 9B Other Information 54 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 55 Item 11 Executive Compensation 58 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 64 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 65 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 65 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 67 Independent Audit Opinion Balance Sheet Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income Statement of Cash Flows Footnote Disclosures PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS This report contains forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, our statements on strategy, operating forecasts, and our working capital requirements and availability. In addition, from time to time, the company or its representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward-looking statements may be included in, but are not limited to, various filings made by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), press releases or oral statements made by or with the approval of an authorized executive officer of the company. Forward-looking statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical fact and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, or “continue” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Actual results could differ materially from those projected or suggested in any forward-looking statements as a result of a wide variety of factors and conditions, including, but not limited to, the factors and conditions described in the discussions of “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Plan of Operations” in this report and in other documents the company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The reader is cautioned that the Company does not have a policy of updating or revising forward-looking statements and thus the reader should not assume that silence by management of the Company over time means that actual events are bearing out as estimated in such forward-looking statements. All references to “dollars” or “$” are to United States dollars and all references to CDN$ are to Canadian dollars. U.S. Geothermal Inc. (the “Company,” “GTH” or “we” or “us” or words of similar import) is in the renewable “green” energy business. Through its subsidiary, U.S. Geothermal Inc., an Idaho corporation (“Geo-Idaho,” although our references to the company include and refer to our operations through Geo-Idaho), we are engaged in the acquisition, development and utilization of geothermal resources in the Western Region of the United States of America. Geothermal energy is the natural heat energy stored within the earth’s crust. In some areas of the earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result from a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. Development of Business History Geo-Idaho was formed as an Idaho corporation in February 2002 to conduct geothermal resource development. On March 5, 2002 Geo-Idaho entered into a letter agreement with the previous owner, pursuant to which Geo-Idaho agreed to acquire all of the real property, personal property and permits that comprised the owner’s interest in the Raft River project. -5- The Company and Geo-Idaho entered into a merger agreement on February 28, 2002, which was amended and restated on November 30, 2003, and closed on December 19, 2003. In accordance with the merger agreement, GTH acquired Geo-Idaho through the merger of Geo-Idaho with a subsidiary, EverGreen Power Inc., an Idaho corporation formed for that purpose. Geo-Idaho is the surviving corporation and the subsidiary through which GTH conducts operations. As part of this acquisition, we changed our name to U.S. Geothermal Inc. Because the former Geo-Idaho shareholders became the majority holders of GTH, the transaction is treated as a “reverse takeover” for accounting purposes. We currently operate two power plants, Raft River Unit I in Idaho, through our joint venture with Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs, and a plant located in the San Emidio Desert in Nevada. We also have several other properties under development or exploration. Raft River Unit I commenced commercial operations in January 2008. Raft River Unit I is currently selling between 9.6 and 11.7 megawatts of power to Idaho Power Company under a net 13 megawatt power purchase agreement (“PPA”) which expires in 2032. Management is currently evaluating alternatives to bring the Raft River Unit I plant operations to its nameplate capacity of 13 megawatts. In May 2008, we acquired the geothermal assets, including a 3.6 net megawatt nameplate generating capacity power plant, from Empire Geothermal Power LLC and Michael B. Stewart, located in Washoe County, Nevada for approximately $16.6 million. The plant currently generates an approximate average net output of 3.1 megawatts, which is sold to Sierra Pacific Power Corporation. We intend to begin development drilling and planning related to the construction of a 27 megawatt facility utilizing twin 13.5 megawatt plants, similar to the 13 megawatt plant at Raft River Unit I, near the existing San Emidio geothermal plant in the third calendar quarter of 2008. When construction is complete, the existing 3.6 megawatt plant may be decommissioned. Plan of Operations Our management examines different factors when assessing potential acquisitions or projects at different stages of development, such as the internal rate of return of the investment, technical and geological matters and other relevant business considerations. We evaluate our operating projects based on revenues and expenses, and our projects under development, based on costs attributable to each project. We have additional exploration and development properties, Raft River Units II and III in Idaho, Neal Hot Springs in Oregon, potential additional development at San Emidio and energy rights within the Gerlach Known Geothermal Resource Area in Nevada, which we recently entered. Our business strategy is to identify, evaluate, acquire, develop and operate geothermal assets and resources economically, safely and efficiently. We intend to execute this strategy in several steps outlined below: -6- Leverage Management Team Capabilities and Experience – Our strategy is focused on the identification and acquisition of resources that can be developed in a cost-effective manner to produce attractive returns. In particular, we seek to acquire projects that have already undergone geothermal resource discovery. In addition, we intend to operate and manage construction of the projects, while using internal personnel and third-party contractors to efficiently and cost-effectively develop those resources. We believe that we have the strategic personnel in place to determine which resources provide the greatest opportunity for efficient development and operation. We have developed relationships and employed personnel that will allow us to develop and utilize geothermal resources as efficiently as possible. Develop Our Pipeline of Quality Projects – Our project pipeline currently consists of several projects that we believe are aligned with our growth strategy. These projects have consulting reports from various industry experts supporting our belief in those projects’ potential, and we have started PPA negotiations for power off-take with counterparties for some of these growth opportunities. If realized, our identified project pipeline will greatly expand our renewable power generation capacity. Utilize Production Tax Credits and Other Incentives – Although geothermal power production can be cost competitive with fossil fuel power generating facilities without government subsidies in some cases, production tax credits available to geothermal power producers enhance the project economics and attract capital investment. For the Raft River Unit I project, we partnered with Goldman Sachs in order to fully utilize production tax credits available to the joint venture. Our strategy going forward is to structure project ownership to be the primary beneficiary of project economics. Pursue Acquisition Strategy – The geothermal market, particularly in the United States, is fragmented and characterized by a few large players and a number of smaller ones. Geothermal exploration and development is costly, technically challenging and requires long lead times before a project will produce revenue. We believe that geothermal technical and managerial talent is limited in the industry and that access to capital to develop projects will not be equally available to all participants. As a result, we believe that there will be opportunities in the future to pursue acquisitions of geothermal projects and/or geothermal development companies with attractive project pipelines. Evaluate Other Potential Revenue Streams from Geothermal Resources – In addition to electricity generation, we will evaluate additional applications for our geothermal resources including industrial, agriculture, and aquaculture purposes. These uses generally constitute lower temperature applications where, after driving a turbine generator, residual hot water can be cycled for secondary processes before being returned to the geothermal reservoir by injection wells, which can provide incremental revenue streams. We will evaluate the optimal use for each geothermal resource and determine whether selling heat for industrial purposes or generating and subsequently selling power to a grid will generate the highest return on the asset. -7- Cash Requirements We believe our cash and liquid investments at March 31, 2008, plus the $10.2 million in cash generated from the private placement completed April 28, 2008, is adequate to fund our general operating and development activities through March 31, 2009. In the ordinary course of constructing and developing activities, cost overruns, variances in geothermal reservoir conditions and contract delays can significantly affect the economics of our projects. Management believes that sufficient funding will be available to meet its current business objectives, including anticipated cash needs for working capital. If additional funds are needed, we anticipate that the equity may be raised through the issuance of shares, exercise of existing outstanding warrants, and/or through the sale of ownership interest in tax credits and benefits. On April 9, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with a Canadian investment dealer (the “Underwriter”), pursuant to which the Underwriter purchased 6,382,500 units of the Company (each, a "Unit"), each Unit comprising one common share of the Company (each, a "Common Share") and one half of one common share purchase warrant (each whole common share purchase warrant, a "Warrant"), on an underwritten private placement basis at a price of $2.35 CDN per Unit to raise gross proceeds of $14,998,875 CDN. Each Warrant entitles the holder thereof to acquire one additional common share of the Company for a period of 24 months following the closing of the offering for $3.00 US per common share. The net proceeds of the offering is being used by the Company to complete the San Emidio geothermal project acquisition recently announced and for general working capital purposes. Material Acquisitions/Development San Emidio and Granite Creek – (Nevada) We have acquired the geothermal assets of Empire Geothermal Power, LLC and Michael B. Stewart (“Empire Acquisition”) for approximately $16.6 million. This purchase was completed on May 1, 2008. The transaction included an operational geothermal power plant, ground water rights, and geothermal energy rights to properties in two locations: the San Emidio and the Granite Creek assets. The San Emidio assets are located in the San Emidio Desert, Washoe County, Nevada and include the geothermal power plant project, approximately 22,944 acres (35.9 square miles) of geothermal leases, and ground water rights used for cooling water. The Granite Creek assets are comprised of approximately 5,414 acres (8.5 square miles) of BLM geothermal leases located approximately 6 miles north of Gerlach, Nevada along a geologic structure known to host geothermal features including the Great Boiling Spring and the Fly Ranch Geyser. This plant is our second operating geothermal power plant and is owned by a subsidiary of U.S. Geothermal. The power plant sells an annual average of approximately 3.1 megawatts. The plant is approximately 21 years old and employs four binary cycle units. We have conducted a review of the information regarding the project, and we believe that the existing production wells can provide 4,500 to 5,000 gallons per minute of 290 to 300°F fluid to the current power plant. We believe this flow rate and temperature has the potential to generate 10+ megawatts using a modern binary cycle power plant. An independent resource assessment report prepared by Black Mountain Technology in 2008 shows a potential for 44 megawatts of power generation per year for over 30 years. Based on the -8- known 21 year historical production data from this reservoir we believe that the resource can be significantly expanded with the addition of a number of new production and injection wells. The resource is shallow relative to other properties under development by us, which we believe will allow us to utilize this property economically. The San Emidio plant sells its output to Sierra Pacific Power Corporation pursuant to a power purchase agreement (“PPA”). We have prepared a development plan for the San Emidio geothermal resource area for the production of 27 megawatts of power generation. The current plan calls for the construction of twin 13.5 megawatt plants, similar to the 13 megawatt plant at Raft River Unit I. We expect the existing well field will be able to provide approximately 75% of one of the twin plants, fuel requirements, and the new production well field will be able to provide the balance of the first plant’s fuel requirements and will support the development of the second 13.5 megawatt power plant. We plan to begin drilling in 2008, with commercial operations of the twin plants currently expected in late 2010. Management is currently reviewing alternatives and believes project financing will be available for the development and construction. The method of financing the construction of the new power plant has not yet been determined. We believe the construction cost of the project will be approximately $75 to $85 million. Neal Hot Springs – (Oregon) Neal Hot Springs is a promising geothermal resource located in Eastern Oregon. We acquired the Neal Hot Springs geothermal energy and surface rights in September 2006. The Neal Hot Springs resource is currently under development and no construction decision has been made at this time. Drilling of the first well has been completed. We are currently seeking permits to drill two additional production wells and one injection well. Drilling on the first production well began in April 2008 and was completed in June 2008. The productivity status of the well is currently being tested and evaluated. Upon confirmation of positive flow test results on the well, we expect to drill the three additional wells before being able to confirm the initial project megawatt capacity. To date, a total of approximately $2 million has been expended on the Neal Hot Springs project. We expect additional expenditures of approximately $5 to $6 million to complete drilling of the planned three additional wells and associated flow testing. While a geothermal resource discovery has been verified, a commercial geothermal reservoir has not yet been proven to exist at Neal Hot Springs. Teplow Geologic performed a preliminary assessment of Neal Hot Springs based on data prepared by Chevron Minerals from drill records from the late 1970s. Teplow concluded that a potential commercially viable geothermal resource exists and recommended a geophysical and geological mapping program. The mapping and geophysical program was completed by Teplow and MWH Geo-Surveys Inc. in February 2007. The geophysical program included use of gravimetric and magnetic mapping to produce a subsurface map of the area’s faults and irregularities. Additionally, water samples from the surface hot springs were analyzed by Thermochem, Inc., and a geothermometer (a chemical based estimate of resource temperature) was calculated which estimated the potential production temperature at 311ºF to 347ºF. -9- We have prepared a development plan for the Neal Hot Springs geothermal resource area for the target production of 26 megawatts of power generation. The plan calls for the construction of twin 13-megawatt plants, similar to the 13-megawatt plant at Raft River Energy Unit I. Drilling of the first well has been completed. This new well is located adjacent to the discovery well drilled by Chevron Resources in l979. Based on flow test results currently underway, if this new well successfully produces from the hydrothermal fluid system we anticipate, we will seek permits for three more locations for the drilling of two more production wells and one injection well. The permitting is expected to take about three months. Based on our current understanding of the energy potential at the Neal Hot Springs discovery, we expect to drill a total of 8 production and 7 injection wells with an average depth of about 2,500 to 4,000 feet. The total drill program for all 15 wells is expected to take 17 months. Our current plan shows that assuming successful drilling, signing of EPC contracts, signing of a PPA and closing of project finance activities it is possible to start construction by the forth quarter of 2009 and be online in late 2011. We believe the construction cost of the project will be approximately $95 million. We plan to seek additional PPAs for future phases, which may involve drilling new wells and determining the production capacity of those wells for additional plant construction. At this time it is not possible to estimate if or when future wells will be drilled. Future phases may involve additional PPAs with Idaho Power Company or other utilities in the service area and may or may not include terms similar to other PPA. Gerlach – (Nevada) The Company purchased the right to a 1,252 acre Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) geothermal lease for $300,000 in October of 2007. In May of 2008, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Gerlach Green Energy LLC of Nevada (“GGE”). The target of the joint venture is the exploration of the Gerlach geothermal system, which is located in northwestern Nevada, near the town of Gerlach. The joint venture is located near the Company’s Granite Creek leases that were recently acquired as part of the San Emidio geothermal power plant arrangement. The joint venture agreement establishes a limited liability company named Gerlach Geothermal LLC. The agreement provides the Company with a 60 percent ownership interest in the joint venture through a subsidiary of the Company and provides GGE a 40 percent ownership interest in the joint venture. The Company is required to expend $2,000,000 toward the joint venture, of which $300,000 has already been made by a property contribution of the 1,252 acre BLM geothermal lease. GGE has contributed to the joint venture one BLM geothermal lease and one private geothermal lease. These leases have all had previous geologic work performed including geophysical studies and drilling. The joint venture agreement provides GGE an option to maintain its 40 percent ownership interest by making additional capital contributions as required. If GGE elects to dilute to below a 10 percent interest, their ownership position in the joint venture will be converted to a 10 percent net profits interest. The Company serves as the joint venture manager and will receive a reasonable fee for the services. The combined joint venture property totals 3,615 acres (5.6 square miles) with 3,415 acres of BLM leases and 200 acres in a private property lease that contains the Great Boiling Springs thermal feature. The geothermal system near Gerlach is well known, with an extensive database from previous studies and exploration drilling and the Company believes the area has significant -10- exploration potential. Gerlach was ranked as the No. 3 top resource in Nevada by the United States Geological Survey in Circular 726, “Assessment of Geothermal Resources of the United States; 1975”, and has estimated potential resource temperatures from geochemical analysis of 338º F to 352º F (USGS Circulars 726 and 790). Material Changes in Employees At March 31, 2008, the Company had 19 full-time and one part time employee (10 administrative and project development, and 9 field and plant operations). As a result of the Empire Acquisition, effective May 1, 2008, an additional 6 full-time field and plant operations employees were added. The Company continuously considers acquisition opportunities, and if the Company is successful in making acquisitions, additional management and administrative staff may be added. The Company did not experience any labor disputes or labor stoppages during the current fiscal year. Principal Products The principal product is based upon activities related to the production of electrical power from the utilization of the Company’s geothermal resources. The primary product will be the direct sale of power generated by our interests in our geothermal power plants. Currently our principal revenues are earned through consulting and management fees obtained for our services. All power plants currently being considered and currently under construction are for sites in the Western Region of the United States of America. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Geothermal energy is natural heat energy stored within the Earth’s crust at economically accessible depth. In some areas of the Earth, economic concentrations of heat energy result from a combination of geological conditions that allow water to penetrate into hot rocks at depth, become heated, and then circulate to a near surface environment. In these settings, commercially viable extraction of the geothermal energy and its conversion to electricity become possible and a “geothermal resource” is present. There are four major components (or factors) to a geothermal resource: 1. Heat source and temperature – The economic viability of a geothermal resource is related to the amount of heat generated. The higher the temperature, the more valuable the geothermal resource. 2. Fluid – A geothermal resource is commercially viable only when the system contains water and/or steam as a medium to transfer the heat energy to the surface. -11- 3. Permeability – The fluid present underground must be able to move. In general, significant porosity and permeability within the rock formation are needed to create a viable reservoir. 4. Depth – The cost of development increases with depth, as do resource temperatures. The proximity of the reservoir to the surface is therefore a key factor in the economic valuation of a geothermal resource. Electrical power is directly produced through the utilization of geothermal resources; however, these resources are not a direct component of the final product. Raft River Unit I, Idaho is a proven geothermal resource, and has a 13 megawatt geothermal power plant in operation. San Emidio, Nevada is a proven geothermal resource, and has a 3.6 megawatt geothermal plant in operation. Unless major geological changes occur that impact the geothermal reservoirs, the condition of the existing resources is expected to remain consistent over time. Each power plant constructed will have an impact on the temperature and pressure of the tapped reservoir. The extent of this impact and the results of future drilling exploration to determine the actual extent of the reservoir will be a limiting factor on the number of plants that can be constructed at a particular reservoir. Significant Patents, Licenses, Permits, Etc. Raft River. Five significant permits are in place for the Raft River project and are necessary for continued operations: 1. Geothermal well permits for production and injection wells issued by the Idaho Department of Water Resources. 2. A Conditional Use Permit for the first two power plants was issued by the Cassia County Planning and Zoning Commission on April 21, 2005. 3. The Idaho Department of Environmental Quality issued the Air Quality Permit to Construct on May 26, 2006. 4. A Wastewater Reuse Permit issued by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality on February 23, 2007. San Emidio. The San Emidio project has five significant permits in place necessary for continued operations: 1. Geothermal well permits for production and injection wells issued by the Nevada Division of Minerals. 2. A Special Use Permit issued by the Washoe County Board of Commissioners on July 1, 1987. 3. An Air Quality Permit to Operate from Washoe County renewed on January 1, 2008. 4. A Surface Discharge Permit from Nevada Division of Environmental Protection issued on June 11, 2001. 5. An Underground Injection Permit from Nevada Division of Environmental Protection issued on August 18, 2000. -12- Seasonality of Business Generally, the Company’s operations and construction activities are not significantly impacted by seasonality factors. The Company’s binary geothermal plants can operate more efficiently in cooler temperatures. Cooler temperatures facilitate the cooling process of the secondary fluid that is used to power the turbines. However, plant drilling and construction activities could be negatively impacted by inclement weather that can occur, primarily, during the winter months. Industry Practices/Needs for Working Capital The Company is heavily involved in development operations; therefore high levels of working capital are committed, either directly or indirectly to the construction efforts. After a plant becomes commercially operational, the needs of working capital are expected to be low. This assumption is primarily based upon the projected revenues and relatively low levels of expected operational expenses. The Company is expecting to be significantly involved in development activities for the next 5 to 10 years. Dependence on Few Customers Ultimately, the market for electrical power is vast; however, the number of entities that can physically, logistically and economically purchase the commodity in large quantities in our area of operations are limited. The Company currently collects revenues from two major sources that include the Idaho Power Company (through the Company’s major subsidiary Raft River Energy Unit I) and Sierra Pacific Power Company. Even at planned levels of operation, it is expected that the Company and its interests will have a small number of direct customers that may amount to less than 4 or 5. Competitive Conditions Although the market for different forms of energy is large and dominated by very powerful players, we perceive our industrial competition to be independent power producers and in particular those producers who provide “green” renewable power. Our definition of green power is electricity derived from a source that does not pollute the air, water or earth. Sources of green power, in addition to geothermal, include wind, solar, biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric. A number of states have instituted renewable portfolio standards (“RPS”) that require utilities to purchase a minimum percentage of their power from renewable sources. For example, RPS statutes in California and Nevada require 20% renewable, and according to the Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy department, utilities in 34 states nationwide are providing their customers with the opportunity to purchase green, renewable power through premium pricing programs. As a result, we believe green power is a niche sub-market, in which many power purchasers are increasing or committing to increase their investments. Accordingly, the conventional energy producers do not provide direct competition. -13- In the Pacific Northwest there is currently only one geothermal facility (Raft River Energy Unit I). There are a number of wind farms, as well as biomass and run-of-the river hydroelectric facilities. However, the Company believes that the combination of greater reliability and baseload generation from geothermal, access to infrastructure for deliverability, and a low "full life" cost will allow it to successfully compete for long term power purchase agreements. Factors that can influence the overall market for our product include some of the following: number of market participants buying and selling; availability and cost of transmission; amount of electricity normally available in the market; fluctuations in electricity supply due to planned and unplanned outages of competitors’ generators; fluctuations in electricity demand due to weather and other factors; cost of fuel used by generators, which could be impacted by efficiency of generation technology and fluctuations in fuel supply; environmental regulations that impact us and our competitors; extension of the production tax credits past December 31, 2008; relative ease or difficulty of developing and constructing new facilities; and credit worthiness and risk associated with buyers. Environmental Compliance As the Company’s design and permitting activities have progressed, it has further refined and clarified the environmental issues for which it will have to demonstrate compliance in the construction and operation of a geothermal facility at Raft River. The relevant legislation includes: Clean Air Act, Endangered Species Act, Clean Water Act, Rivers and Harbors Act, National Historic Preservation Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Idaho Solid Waste Facilities Act and the IDAPA Drilling for Geothermal Resource Rules. In preparation for project financing, Raft River Unit I Environmental Site Assessment was completed by Kleinfelder on October 21, 2005. The Unit I assessment identified two underground storage tanks, which have since been removed. The Raft River project is currently in compliance with all environmental permits and water quality monitoring requirements. The most significant investment in environmental compliance has been associated with water quality monitoring which is currently being conducted on a weekly basis. The Company previously petitioned the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) to reduce the monitoring obligations. IDWR believed that additional monitoring data was warranted. Based on additional ground water monitoring data, the Company is again requesting a reduced ground water monitoring frequency. We anticipate a favorable response from the IDWR. Since operations have been initiated, key environmental reports include: 1) Monthly production and injection reports which are filed with the IDWR; -14- 2) Quarterly ground water monitoring reports which are filed with IDWR; 3) Annual land application and blowdown water quality reports filed with the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality. 4) Annual Tier II reporting filed with the Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security, Local Emergency Planning Committee, and the local fire department. The Raft River project is ideally suited in a rural agricultural area. The nearest full time resident is located over one mile south of the plant. The nearest part time resident is located approximately one half mile north of the plant. Additionally, there are no unique plant or animal communities in the area and no unique cultural or environmental constraints. Financial Information about Geographic Areas As described in detail in the Property section, the Company’s interest in the Raft River Unit I power plant, located in the southeastern part of the State of Idaho, became operational on January 3, 2008. Similar plants are in the planning stages at the same location as well as locations in Nevada and Oregon. The Company has recently acquired a 3.6 megawatt geothermal plant and geothermal rights in San Emidio, Nevada. Land acquisitions and rights have been obtained to explore the development and construction of power plants in the southeastern part of the State of Oregon. Available Information We make available, free of charge through our Internet website at http://www.usgeothermal.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report and is not a part of this report. Governmental Approvals and Regulation U.S. Geothermal Inc. (“GTH”) is subject to federal and state regulation in respect of the production, sale and distribution of electricity. Federal legislation includes the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Power Act, and the Energy Policy Act of 1992. GTH is defined as an independent power producer under the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC"). As an independent power producer, GTH’s operations are supported by the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (”PURPA”) which encourages alternative energy sources such as geothermal, wind, biomass, solar and cogeneration. The State of Idaho also regulates electricity through the Idaho Public Utility Commission ("IPUC"). Regulated utilities have the exclusive right to distribute and sell electricity within their service area. They may purchase electricity in the wholesale market from independent producers like GTH. The IPUC, has the authority to establish rules and regulations governing the sale of electricity generated from alternative energy sources. Regulated utilities are required to purchase electricity on an avoided cost basis from renewable energy facilities, or they may acquire purchased power through bids or negotiated procedures. -15- On May 8, 2006, GTH submitted proposals to Idaho Power in response to their “Request for Proposal for Geothermal Power.” GTH was the preferred respondent and entered power purchase contract negotiations with Idaho Power. The Raft River Unit I Geothermal Power Plant started up under a contract based on avoided costs which limited the output of the plant to 10 average mega watts per month. Through subsequent contract negotiations, GTH reduced the long-term cost of power to Idaho Power, and is now allowed to deliver as much power in any month as the plant is capable of producing, up to a maximum hourly output of approximately 16 mega watts. The annual average output is expected to be on the order of 13 mega watts. This 30 percent increase in plant output would be achieved without major additional power plant capital investment and is expected to decrease the operating cost per kilowatt-hour. Some additional production and injection capacity will have to be developed in order to meet the output targets. Because carbon regulation is anticipated to increase the cost of power sourced from coal and because there are limited opportunities to purchase baseload geothermal power, GTH has found that utilities across the Western United States are eager to discuss PPAs with GTH. On February 28, 2008, U.S. Geothermal Inc. and Eugene Water and Electric Board (“EWEB”), from Eugene, Oregon signed a power purchase agreement (“PPA”) for the planned Unit II power plant at Raft River. The PPA allows for variable electrical output up to a maximum of 16 megawatts with a term of 25 years. The PPA is subject to successful drilling and resource development at Raft River. The power will be delivered to BPA’s customer load in Idaho. The combined sales from the Idaho Power Raft River Unit I contract and the EWEB Unit II contract will be 26 megawatts from two plants. Before the burgeoning interest in geothermal power, the Company had originally planned 30 megawatts from three plants. The construction of only two larger plants will result in substantial capital and operating cost savings through improved economy of scale. In addition to the EWEB agreement, the strong regional interest in geothermal power has resulted in numerous utilities inquiring with GTH to purchase the electrical power output of Unit III at Raft River, for the output of the Neal Hot Springs power plants, and for any expanded output at the company’s San Emidio, NV project. All future plants will be developed under PPAs that do not restrict the output of the project. GTH will be required to obtain various federal, state and county approvals for construction of future geothermal facilities. These approvals are issued by entities such as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, State (NV, OR, ID) Departments of Environmental Quality, Water Resources, State Historic Preservation Offices, the applicable land management agency, and County Commissioners. For project development in Idaho and Oregon, David Evans & Associates of Boise, Idaho is providing consulting and engineering services for transmission and interconnection issues. Centra Consulting, Inc. of Boise, Idaho has been retained to assist with State of Idaho air quality and cooling water reuse permitting, and we have retained various environmental engineering firms and regulatory consultants to advise and assist GTH with regard to siting, design and regulatory compliance. -16- For project development in Nevada, U.S. Geothermal is retaining similar consulting firms to supplement in-house staff. Environmental Credits In the past several years, there has been increased demand for energy generated from geothermal resources in the United States as production costs for electricity generated from geothermal resources have become competitive relative to fossil fuel generation. This is partly due to newly enacted legislative and regulatory incentives, such as production tax credits and state renewable portfolio standards. State renewable portfolio standards laws require that an increasing percentage of the electricity supplied by electric utility companies operating in states with such standards will be derived from renewable energy resources until certain pre-established goals are met. We expect increasing demand for energy generated from geothermal and other renewable resources in the United States as additional states adopt or extend renewable portfolio standards. As a “green” power producer, environmental-related credits, such as renewable energy credits or carbon credits, may become available for sale to power companies (to allow them to meet their “green” power requirements) or to businesses which produce carbon based pollution. If available, these credits will belong exclusively to us, and may provide an additional source of revenue. We expect the following key incentives to influence our results of operation are: Production Tax Credits. Production tax credits provide project owners with a federal tax credit for the first ten years of plant operation. At present, unless extended, facilities constructed after December 31, 2008 will not be eligible to use this production tax credit. The federal production tax credit available for geothermal energy in 2007 was 2 cents per kilowatt-hour. Renewable Energy Credits. Renewable Energy Certificates, or RECs, are tradable environmental commodities that represent proof that 1 megawatt-hour of electricity was generated from an eligible renewable energy resource. In states that have a REC program, a renewable energy provider is credited with one REC for every 1,000 kilowatt-hours or 1 megawatt-hour of electricity it produces. The renewable energy is then fed into the electrical grid and the accompanying REC can then be sold on the open market providing the renewable energy producer with an additional source of income. On July 29, 2006, U.S. Geothermal, Inc. signed a $4.6 million renewable energy credits purchase and sales agreement with Holy Cross Energy, a Colorado cooperative electric association. Holy Cross Energy will purchase the renewable energy credits associated with the Raft River Unit I power production from 2008 to 2017. We retain the renewable energy credits associated with power production from Raft River Unit I after 2017. We expect to receive a majority of the annual revenue from the ten-year renewable energy credits sales arrangement with Holy Cross Energy. Raft River Unit 1 started accruing renewable energy credit revenues in January 2008. -17- ITEM 1A. Risk Factors General Business Risks Our future performance depends on our ability to establish that the geothermal resource is economically sustainable. Geothermal resource exploration and development involves a high degree of risk. The recovery of the amounts shown for geothermal properties and related deferred costs on our financial statements, as well as the execution of our business plan generally, is dependent upon the existence of economically recoverable and sustainable reserves. Expansion of the production of power from our interests is not certain and depends on successful drilling and discovery of additional geothermal hydrothermal resources in quantities and containing sufficient heat necessary to economically fuel future plants. We have a need for substantial additional financing and will have to significantly delay, curtail or cease operations if we are unable to secure such financing. The Company requires substantial additional financing to fund the cost of continued development of the Neal Hot Springs (Oregon) and San Emidio (Nevada) projects and other operating activities, and to finance the growth of our business, including the construction and commissioning of power generation facilities. We may not be able to obtain the needed funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, if additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, significant dilution to our current shareholders may occur and new investors may get rights that are preferential to current shareholders. Alternatively, we may have to bring in joint venture partners to fund further development work, which would result in reducing our interests in the projects. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to pursue our growth strategy in the geothermal power production segment, which may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations. When we identify a geothermal property that we may seek to acquire or to develop, a substantial capital investment will be required. Our continued access to capital, through project financing or through a partnership or other arrangements with acceptable terms is necessary for the success of our growth strategy. Our attempts to secure the necessary capital may not be successful on favorable terms, or at all. Market conditions and other factors may not permit future project and acquisition financings on terms favorable to us. Our ability to arrange for financing on favorable terms, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, investor confidence, the continued success of current projects, the credit quality of the projects being financed, the political situation in the state in which the project is located and the continued existence of tax laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are unable to secure capital through partnership or other arrangements, we may have to finance the projects using equity financing which will have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Also, in the absence of favorable financing or other capital options, we may decide not to build new plants or acquire facilities from third parties. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and financial condition. We may not be able to fully develop the geothermal resource within the Raft River Unit I joint venture boundaries which would increase development costs for Raft River Unit II and result in delays. Raft River Unit II is currently anticipated to be located within the Raft -18- River Unit I joint venture boundaries. Without the agreement and consent of our Raft River Unit I joint-venture partner, Raft River Holdings, we cannot fully develop the geothermal resource within the Raft River Unit I joint venture boundaries without incurring increased development costs and delays. It is very costly to place geothermal resources into commercial production. Before the sale of any power can occur, it will be necessary to construct a gathering and disposal system, a power plant, and a transmission line, and considerable administrative costs would be incurred, together with the drilling of additional wells. For Raft River Energy Unit I, capital contributions of approximately $51 million were needed. Future expansion of power production at Raft River, Idaho and San Emidio, Nevada and development of new power production capability at Neal Hot Springs may result in significantly increased capital costs related to increased production and injection well drilling and higher costs for labor and materials. To fund expenditures of this magnitude, we may have to find a joint venture participant with substantial financial resources. There can be no assurance that a participant can be found and, if found, it would result in us having to substantially reduce our interest in the project. We may be unable to realize our strategy of utilizing the tax and other incentives available for developing geothermal power projects to attract strategic alliance partners, which may adversely affect our ability to complete these projects. Part of our business strategy is to utilize the tax and other incentives available to developers of geothermal power generating plants to attract strategic alliance partners with the capital sufficient to complete these projects. Many of the incentives available for these projects are new and highly complex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in structuring agreements that are attractive to potential strategic alliance partners. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to complete the development of our geothermal power projects and our business could be harmed. Our participation in the joint venture is subject to risks relating to working with a co-venturer. Raft River Energy I LLC is the Unit I project joint venture company with Raft River I Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Raft River I Holdings, LLC has contributed a total of $34.2 million in cash and we have contributed over $15.6 million in cash and approximately $1.5 million in production and injection wells and geothermal leases to Raft River Energy I LLC. We are subject to risks in working with a co-venturer that could adversely impact Unit I of the Raft River project as well as anticipated development of Raft River Unit II. We anticipate that the Raft River Unit II power plant may utilize the geothermal resource within the Raft River Unit I joint venture boundaries. Further, our contribution to the joint venture may exceed returns from the joint venture, if any. We are a holding company and our revenues depend substantially on the performance of our subsidiaries and the projects they operate. We are a holding company whose primary assets are our ownership of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. We conduct no other business and, as a result, we depend entirely upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and cash flow. Our subsidiaries and projects may be restricted in their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the satisfaction of other obligations, including the payment of operating expenses or debt service. -19- We may not be able to manage our growth due to the commencement of operations of the Raft River and San Emidio power plants and exploration activities in Neal Hot Springs which could negatively impact our operations and financial condition. Significant growth in our operations will place demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources, and the increased scope of our operations will present challenges to us due to increased management time and resources required and our existing limited staff. Our future performance and profitability will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operational, financial and administrative functions of Raft River and San Emidio and other acquired properties into our operations, to hire additional personnel and to implement necessary enhancements to our management systems to respond to changes in our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Our inability to manage the increased scope of operations, to integrate acquired properties, to hire additional personnel or to enhance our management systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we incur material debt to fund our business, we could face significant risks associated with such debt levels. We will need to procure significant additional financing to construct, commission and operate our power plants in order to generate and sell electricity. If this financing includes the issuance of material amounts of debt, this would expose the Company to risks including, among others, the following: a portion of our cash flow from operations would be used for the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness and would not be available for financing capital expenditures or other purposes; a significant level of indebtedness and the covenants governing such indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business because certain activities or financing options may be limited or prohibited under the terms of agreements relating to such indebtedness; a significant level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to defaults by the purchasers of electricity or in the event of a downturn in our business because of fixed debt service obligations; and the terms of agreements may require us to make interest and principal payments and to remain in compliance with stated financial covenants and ratios. If the requirements of such agreements were not satisfied, the lenders could be entitled to accelerate the payment of all outstanding indebtedness and foreclose on the collateral securing payment of that indebtedness, which would likely include our interest in the project. In such event, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available or could obtain the financing required to meet our obligations, including the repayment of outstanding principal and interest on such indebtedness. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies that we may acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or -20- other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The success of our business relies on retaining our key personnel. We are dependent upon the services of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel J. Kunz, our Chief Financial Officer, Kerry D. Hawkley, our Chief Operating Officer, Douglas J. Glaspey, and Kevin Kitz, our Vice President – Project Development. The loss of any of their services could have a material adverse effect upon us. The Company has executed employment agreements with these persons but does not have key-man insurance on any of them. Our development activities are inherently very risky. The high risks involved in the development of a geothermal resource cannot be over-stated. The development of geothermal resources at our Raft River and Neal Hot Springs projects are such that there cannot be any assurance of success. Exploration costs are high and are not fixed. The geothermal resource cannot be relied upon until substantial development, including drilling, has taken place. The costs of development drilling are subject to numerous variables such as unforeseen geologic conditions underground which could result in substantial cost overruns. Drilling for geothermal resource at Raft River is relatively deep with the average depth of wells some 6,000 feet. Drilling at Neal Hot Springs and at planned future phases of expansion at Raft River may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including economic conditions, mechanical problems, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays of equipment and services. If our drilling activities are not successful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. In addition to the substantial risk that wells drilled will not be productive, or may decline in productivity after commencement of production, hazards such as unusual or unexpected geologic formations, pressures, downhole conditions, mechanical failures, blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of well fluids, pollution and other physical and environmental risks are inherent in geothermal exploration and production. These hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. The impact of governmental regulation could adversely affect our business by increasing costs for financing or development of power plants. Our business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on taxation, the exploration -21- for and development, production and distribution of electricity, and environmental and safety matters. On a Federal level, the most important tax rule that affects our business is the Production Tax Credit (“PTC”), which is currently set to expire on December 31, 2008. If the PTC is not extended, financing of planned additional geothermal power plants will be much more difficult because the PTC enhances the annual revenue of the project by about 25 percent per year for the first 10 years. Without this revenue enhancement the expected internal rates of returns on investments would be significantly lower and therefore they would be less desirable for investors who then may choose to invest elsewhere for greater returns. The loss of the PTC is a risk that could result in making future expansions at Raft River, San Emidio and at Neal Hot Springs uneconomic. New rules recently adopted by the Bureau of Land Management, as directed by the Energy Policy Act of 2005, require competitive auction of all geothermal leases on Federal lands. Competitive leasing is significantly increasing the cost of obtaining leases on Federal land, is adding to the capital costs needed to develop geothermal projects, is increasing the total electrical power prices needed to make a geothermal project viable and is making it more difficult to acquire additional adjacent lands for reservoir protection and exploration. If Federal lands or any Federal involvement are included in any geothermal development, requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") will be triggered. Most of the geothermal resource in the United States is located in the western states, where the Federal Government often is the largest landowner. If a NEPA action is triggered, such as an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment, a project delay of one to two years and a cost of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000 or more may be incurred while the environmental permitting process is completed. NEPA not only can impact the property where the geothermal resource is located, but includes the siting and construction of transmission lines. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. In the states of Idaho, Nevada and Oregon, drilling for geothermal resources is governed by specific rules. In Nevada drilling operations are governed by the Division of Minerals (Nevada Administrative Code Chapter 534A); in Idaho by the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDAPA 37 Title 03 Chapter 04); and in Oregon by the Division of Oil, Gas and Mineral Industries (Division 20 Geothermal Regulation). These rules require drilling permits and govern the spacing of wells, rates of production, prevention of waste and other matters, and, may not allow or may restrict drilling activity, or may require that a geothermal resource be unitized (shared) with adjoining land owners. Such laws and regulations may increase the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning our geothermal wells, the power plant and other facilities. State environmental requirements and permits, such as the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Permit to Construct, include public disclosure and comment. It is possible that a legal protest could be triggered through one of the permitting processes that would delay construction and increase cost for one of our projects. The state of Oregon has an Energy Facility Siting Council that must issue a site certificate for any geothermal energy facilities of 35 megawatts or higher which could affect the Neal Hot Spring project by adding additional cost and delay construction. -22- Because of these state and federal regulations, we could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil or water, including responsibility for remediation costs. We could potentially discharge such materials into the environment: from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site; leakage of fluids or airborne pollutants from gathering systems, pipelines, power plant and storage tanks; damage to geothermal wells resulting from accidents during normal operations; and blowouts, cratering and explosions. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our business by increasing cost and the time required to explore and develop geothermal projects. In addition, because the Vulcan Property at Raft River was previously operated by others, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by such former operators. Industry competition may impede our growth and ability to enter into power purchase agreements on terms favorable to us, or at all, which would negatively impact our revenue. The electrical power generation industry, of which geothermal power is a sub-component, is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully or grow our business. We compete in areas of pricing, grid access and markets. The industry in the Western United States, in which our the Raft River and San Emidio projects are located, is complex as it is composed of public utility districts, cooperatives and investor-owned power companies. Many of the participants produce and distribute electricity. Their willingness to purchase electricity from an independent producer may be based on a number of factors and not solely on pricing and surety of supply. If we cannot enter into power purchase agreements on terms favorable to us, or at all, it would negatively impact our revenue and our decisions regarding development of additional properties. Some of our leases will terminate if we do not achieve commercial production during the primary term of the lease, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as we achieve commercial production or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet achieved commercial production of the geothermal resources. Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not achieve commercial production and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable project is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection, all of which may not be possible or could result in increased cost to us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Claims have been made that some geothermal plants cause seismic activity and related property damage. There are approximately two-dozen geothermal plants operating within a -23- fifty-square-mile region in the area of Anderson Springs, in Northern California, and there is general agreement that the operation of these plants causes a generally low level of seismic activity. Some residents in the Anderson Springs area have asserted property damage claims against those plant operators. There are significant issues whether the plant operators are liable, and to date no court has found in favor of such claimants. While we do not believe the areas of the Raft River, Idaho, San Emidio, Nevada and Neal Hot Springs, Oregon will present the same geological or seismic risks, there can be no assurance that we would not be subject to similar claims and litigation, which may adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Actual costs of construction or operation of a power plant may exceed estimates used in negotiation of power purchase and power financing agreements. The Company’s initial power purchase contract is under rates established by the Idaho Public Utility Commission, using an “avoided-cost” model for cost of construction and operating costs of power plants. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, the Company may not be able to build the contemplated power plants, or if constructed, may not be able to operate profitably. The Company’s financing agreements provide for a priority payback to our partner. If the actual costs of construction or operations exceed the model costs, we may not be able to operate profitably or receive the planned share of cash flow and proceeds from the project. Payments under our initial power purchase agreement may be reduced if we are unable to forecast our production adequately. Under the terms of our initial power purchase agreement, and starting with the third year of operation, if we do not deliver electricity output within 90% to 110% of our forecasted amount, which requires us to submit a forecast every three months, payments for the amount delivered will be reduced, possibly significantly. For example if the plant produces more than 110% of the power as forecasted then we would not receive any revenue for the amount over the forecast figure. If the plant produces less than 90% of the forecast amount for unexcused reasons, such as normal plant breakdowns and maintenance, then we may be subject to a reduced power price, depending the prevailing power market conditions. The agreement moves the power price to the market price instead of contracted price. We currently expect to forecast 9 megawatts of delivery for a 10-megawatt plant and the damages would then result if the actual delivery was only 8.1 megawatts or less. All 8.1 megawatts would be subject to a reduced price that is not possible to predict at this time. The total average revenue per megawatt hour is approximately $62.40 and the reduction in revenue could be perhaps 30 percent of that amount. As a risk mitigation element we are not subject to this adjustment until year three of the contract and then we are able to submit a new forecast every three months thereby limiting this exposure. There are some risks for which we do not or cannot carry insurance. Because our current operations are limited in scope, the Company carries public liability insurance and directors’ and officers’ liability coverage, but does not currently insure against any other risks. As its operations progress, the Company will acquire additional coverage consistent with its operational needs, but the Company may become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards against which it cannot insure or cannot insure at sufficient levels or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. In particular, coverage is not available for environmental liability or earthquake damage. -24- Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interests arising out of their relationships with other companies. Several of our directors and officers serve (or may agree to serve) as directors or officers of other companies or have significant shareholdings in other companies. To the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. From time to time several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participation in larger programs, permitting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our stock price and business. As a public company, we are subject to numerous governmental and stock exchange requirements, with which we believe we are in compliance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) have requirements that we may fail to meet by the required deadlines or we may fall out of compliance with, such as the internal controls assessment, reporting and auditor attestation required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company has documented and tested its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). Commencing March 31, 2008, the end of the Company’s most recent fiscal year, SOX required an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by the Company’s independent auditors on internal controls over financial reporting. Management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of March 31, 2008 due to a material weakness identified by its external auditors in connection with the calculation of the stock option valuations. The remediation efforts designed by the Company may not be adequate to address the material weakness. Due to the existence of the material weakness, the Company has also determined that its disclosure controls and procedures, as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, were not effective. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Our failure to meet regulatory requirements and exchange listing standards may result in actions such as the delisting of our stock impacting our stock’s liquidity; SEC enforcement actions; and securities claims and litigation. We may be subject to liquidated damages in the event that a resale registration statement is not declared effective by September 29, 2008. On April 28, 2008 (the “Closing Date”), we completed a private placement of 6,382,500 units (each a “Unit”) at a price of $2.35 CDN per Unit. Each unit consisting of one common share (“Common Share”) of the Company and one half of one warrant. Each whole Common Share purchase warrant (a “Warrant”) entitles the -25- holder thereof to acquire one Common Share in the capital of the Company for a period of 24 months following the Closing Date. Upon completion of the placement and the issuance of 290,000 shares of common stock in connection with the Empire transaction, the company had 62,011,753 shares issued and outstanding. In connection with the offering, we agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission as soon as practicable after closing and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause it to become effective and remain effective for two years. In the event the registration statement is not effective by September 29, 2008, the purchasers in the private placement are entitled to receive, as liquidated damages, 0.1 common shares for each common share purchased. Risks Relating To the Market for Our Securities A significant number of shares of our common stock are eligible for public resale. If a significant number of shares are resold on the public market, the share price could be reduced and could adversely affect our ability to raise needed capital. The market price for our common stock could decrease significantly and our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity could be adversely affected by the availability and resale of such a large number of shares in a short period of time. If we cannot raise additional capital on terms favorable to us, or at all, it may delay our exploration or development of existing properties or limit our ability to acquire new properties, which would be detrimental to our business. Because the public market for shares of our common stock is limited, investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange in Canada and on the American Stock Exchange in the United States, and investors may be unable to resell their shares of common stock. The development of an active public trading market depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers that are able to sell their shares and market makers that are willing to make a market in the shares. Under these circumstances, the market bid and ask prices for the shares may be significantly influenced by the decisions of the market makers to buy or sell the shares for their own account, which may be critical for the establishment and maintenance of a liquid public market in our common stock. We cannot give you any assurance that an active public trading market for the shares will develop or be sustained. The price of our common stock is volatile, which may cause investment losses for our shareholders. The market for our common stock is highly volatile, having ranged in the last fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, from a low of $1.59 CDN to a high of $4.75 CDN on the TSX Exchanges and from a low of $1.37 US to a high of $4.78 US on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The trading price of our common stock on the TSX Exchange and on the American Stock Exchange is subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, quarterly variations in operating and financial results, and general economic and market conditions. In addition, statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to our market or relating to our company could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The highly volatile nature of our stock price may cause investment losses for our shareholders. -26- We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest any earnings in the development of our projects. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Provisions in our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings, which may deter a takeover attempt. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder acquired such ownership percentage, unless, among other things, our Board of Directors has approved the transaction. This statute likewise may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. -27- 