RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares or ADSs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to Gold Fields. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Changes in the market price for gold, and to a lesser extent copper, which in the past have fluctuated widely, affect the profitability of Gold Fields’ operations and the cash flows generated by those operations. Gold Fields’ revenues are primarily derived from the sale of gold that it produces. Gold Fields does not generally enter into forward sales, derivatives or other hedging arrangements in order to establish a price in advance of the sale of its gold production. As a result, it is exposed to changes in the gold price, which could lead to reduced revenue should the gold price decline. For example, during 2014, the gold price fluctuated between $1,142 and $1,385 per ounce. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. The market price for gold has historically been volatile and is affected by numerous factors over which Gold Fields has no control, such as general supply and demand, speculative trading activity and global economic drivers. Should the gold price decline below Gold Fields’ production costs, it may experience losses and should this situation remain for an extended period, Gold Fields may be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its growth projects, operations and/or reduce operational capital expenditures. Gold Fields might not be able to recover any losses it incurred during, or after, such events. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may also adversely affect Gold Fields’ ability to undertake new capital projects or continue with existing operations or make other long-term strategic decisions. The use of lower gold prices in reserve calculations and life of mine plans could also result in material impairments of Gold Fields’ investment in mining properties or a reduction in its reserve estimates and corresponding restatements of its reserves and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges. In Peru, copper accounts for a significant proportion of the revenues at Gold Fields’ Cerro Corona mine, although copper is not a major element of Gold Fields’ overall revenues. A variety of factors may depress global copper prices and a decline in copper prices, which have also fluctuated widely, would adversely affect the revenues, profit and cash flows of the Cerro Corona mine. Gold Fields’ mineral reserves are estimates based on a number of assumptions, which, if changed, may require Gold Fields to lower its estimated mineral reserves. The mineral reserves stated in this annual report are estimates based on assumptions regarding, among other things, Gold Fields’ costs, expenditures, commodity prices, exchange rates, and metallurgical and mining recovery assumptions, which may prove inaccurate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond Gold Fields’ control. In the event that Gold Fields adversely revises any of the assumptions that underlie its mineral reserves reporting, Gold Fields may need to revise its mineral reserves downwards. See “Information on the Company—Reserves of Gold Fields as of December 31, 2014.” Gold Fields is in the process of rebasing the production profile of its South Deep mine. As a result, the mineral reserve information for South Deep as of December 31, 2014 primarily reflect mining depletion of last year’s figures except where material differences were encountered for technical or economic reasons, in which case suitably revised models and schedules were implemented. Therefore, the information regarding South Deep’s ore reserves as of December 31, 2014 has not been prepared on the same basis as the ore reserves information for Gold Fields’ other operations or on the same basis as in fiscal 2013 or 2012; and may not be directly comparable to that reported by the Group’s other mines in the current year or South Deep and the Group’s other mines in prior years. For further information about the methodology used to prepare South Deep’s ore reserves information as of December 31, 2014, see “Information on the Company—Reserves of Gold Fields as of December 31, 2014—Methodology”. 6 Table of Contents To the extent that Gold Fields makes acquisitions, it may experience problems in executing the acquisitions or managing and integrating the acquisitions with its existing operations. In order to maintain or expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may seek to make acquisitions of selected precious metal producing companies or assets. For example, on October 1, 2013, Gold Fields completed the acquisition of the Granny Smith, Darlot and Lawlers gold mines, or the Yilgarn South Assets, in Western Australia from Barrick Gold Corporation, or Barrick. See “Information on the Company—Gold Fields’ Mining Operations—Australasia Operations” Any such acquisition may change the scale of the Company’s business and operations and may expose it to new geographic, geological, political, social, operating, financial, legal, regulatory and contractual risks. There can be no assurance that any acquisition will achieve the results intended, and, as such, could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields’ operations and profits have been and may be adversely affected by union activity and new and existing labor laws. Over recent periods, there has been an increase in union activity in some of the countries in which Gold Fields operates that has had a material adverse impact on Gold Fields’ operations, production and financial performance. In South Africa, a recent increase in labor unrest has resulted in more frequent industrial disputes and extended negotiations that have negatively affected South Africa’s sovereign debt rating and subsequently the credit ratings of a number of the country’s leading mining companies, including Gold Fields. In particular, strikes during the second half of fiscal 2012 impacted Gold Fields’ operations and caused work stoppages, resulting in significant production losses, primarily at the Spin-off operations. While the outcome of the wage negotiations with the unions in fiscal 2015 was relatively positive, and while Gold Fields now has fewer employees in South Africa after the Spin-off, in light of the recent labor unrest there can be no guarantee that future negotiations will not be accompanied by further strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions. Furthermore, guidelines and targets have been provided to facilitate compliance with the open-ended broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements espoused in Section 2 of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Development Act, or MPRDA, and in the broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African mining and minerals industry known as the Mining Charter, as well as the amendments to that charter that took effect from September 13, 2010, known as the Amended Mining Charter. The Mining Charter, as amended, contains guidelines which provide that all mining companies must achieve, among other things, 26% ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans, or HDSAs, of mining assets by March 2015 and a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation at the executive management, senior management, middle management, junior management and core and critical skills levels (subject to offsets) in order to comply with the empowerment requirements of the MPRDA. The government of South Africa has also announced that it intends to conduct a review of the Mining Charter in fiscal 2015. See “—Gold Fields’ mineral rights are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens and which impose certain ownership requirements, the interpretation of which are the subject of dispute.” and “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights”. The ongoing implementation and enforcement of these requirements, including as a result of any changes thereto following the announced review, may be contentious. Gold Fields’ operations in Ghana and Peru have recently been, and may in the future be, impacted by increased union activities and new labor laws. In particular, there can be no guarantee that (i) labor unions in either country will not undertake strikes or “go-slow” actions impacting the Group’s operations or those of other related industries or suppliers, or that (ii) changes in local regulations will not result in increased costs and penalties being incurred by the Group. In Ghana, in April 2013, employees represented by the Ghana Mineworkers Union, or GMWU, the Professional Managerial Staff Union and the Branch Union at both Tarkwa and Damang undertook illegal 7 Table of Contents industrial action, resulting in the temporary suspension of production at both operations. The strike lasted six days and ended after Gold Fields and the GMWU reached a settlement. While the wage negotiations with the unions in fiscal 2013 were completed, in light of the recent labor unrest there can be no guarantee that negotiations in the future will not be difficult or accompanied by further strikes, work stoppages or other labor actions. In Peru, the Group may see increased union activity over the course of fiscal 2015 as a result of reduced commodity and mineral prices which may lead to reductions in the annual income of employees. This may in turn cause unions to seek better and/or additional benefits to compensate for any such decrease in their annual income, such as through increased activities and/or industrial action. In addition, while the Peruvian government has introduced a three year remediation program which prioritizes the imposition of corrective measures and establishes a three-year moratorium on the imposition of environmental fines save in exceptional cases, there has been an increase in labor inspection activities over the course of fiscal 2014, and this may continue into fiscal 2015. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru.” In the event that Gold Fields experiences further industrial relations related interruptions at any of its operations or in other industries that impact its operations, or increased employment-related costs due to union or employee activity, these may have a material adverse effect on its business, production levels, operating costs, production targets, operating results, financial condition, reputation and future prospects. In addition, lower levels of mining activity can have a longer term impact on production levels and operating costs, which may affect operating life. Mining conditions can deteriorate during extended periods without production, such as during and after strikes, and Gold Fields will not re-commence mining until health and safety conditions are considered appropriate to do so. Existing labor laws (including those that impose obligations on Gold Fields regarding worker rights) and any new or amended labor laws may increase Gold Fields’ labor costs and have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields’ mineral rights are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens and which impose certain ownership requirements, the interpretation of which are the subject of dispute. Gold Fields’ right to own and exploit mineral reserves and deposits is governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the mineral properties are located. Currently, a significant portion of Gold Fields’ reserves and deposits are located in countries where mining rights could be suspended or canceled should it breach its obligations in respect of the acquisition and exploitation of these rights. In all of the countries where Gold Fields operates, the formulation or implementation of governmental policies on certain issues may be unpredictable. This may include changes in laws relating to mineral rights and ownership of mining assets and the right to prospect and mine, and, in extreme cases, nationalization, expropriation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits agreements and contracts. For example, Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa are subject to legislation regulating the exploitation of mineral resources through the granting of rights required to prospect and mine for minerals. This includes broad-based BEE legislation designed to effect the entry of HDSAs into the mining industry and increase their participation in the South African economy. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources and Development Act, or the MPRDA, came into effect on May 1, 2004 and transferred ownership of mineral resources to the South African people with the South African government acting as custodian in order to, among other things, promote equitable access to the nation’s mineral resources by South Africans, expand opportunities for historically disadvantaged persons who wish to participate in the South African mining industry and advance social and economic development. As custodian, the South African government exercises regulatory control over the exploitation of mineral resources and does so by exercising the power to grant the rights required to prospect and mine for minerals. Mining companies were required to apply for the right to mine and/or prospect and to convert then-existing mining rights to “new order” mining rights. In order to qualify for these rights, applicants need to satisfy the South African government that 8 Table of Contents the granting of such a right will advance the open-ended broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements of the MPRDA. The MPRDA also required that mining companies submit social and labor plans, or SLPs which set out their commitments relating to human resource development, labor planning and economic development planning to the DMR. In order to provide guidance on the fulfillment of these broad-based socio-economic empowerment requirements to the mining industry, the DMR published the Mining Charter, which became effective on May 1, 2004. The Mining Charter includes guidelines envisaging that each mining company should achieve a 15% HSDA ownership of mining assets within five years and a 26% HSDA ownership of mining assets within 10 years. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights—The MPRDA”. In 2010, the DMR introduced the Amended Mining Charter containing guidelines envisaging, among other things, that mining companies should achieve a minimum of 40% HDSA demographic representation by 2014 at executive management (board) level, senior management (executive committee) level, core and critical skills, middle management level and junior management level. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Mineral Rights.” In April 2013, Gold Fields submitted a new SLP for South Deep to replace its original SLP submitted in 2010 and is awaiting a response from the DMR. In fiscal 2014, the DMR launched audits of mining companies, which were conducted by a third party appointed by the DMR to assess such companies’ compliance with the BEE guidelines of the Mining Charter and Amended Mining Charter. However, the DMR subsequently abandoned the externally conducted audit process. It is therefore unclear what the status of the process is and what the outcomes were. It is also unclear whether or not the information provided during this audit process will be considered or used by the DMR for any purpose in the future. In fiscal 2015, the DMR directed mining companies to provide information related to compliance with the Amended Mining Charter via an electronic reporting template. This template has raised a number of concerns among mining companies due to its inflexible approach towards the assessment of compliance with the Amended Mining Charter. On March 31, 2015, the DMR made an interim report of consolidated results of the self-assessment by reporting companies of compliance with the Mining Charter, reporting relatively broad compliance with the non-ownership requirements of the Amended Mining Charter. However, the DMR did not report the results of compliance with the HDSA ownership guidelines of the Mining Charter and noted that there is no consensus on certain applicable principles. On the same date, the Chamber of Mines reported that the DMR believes that empowerment transactions by mining companies concluded after 2004 where the HDSA ownership level has fallen due to HDSA disposal of assets or for other reasons, should not be included in the calculation of HDSA ownership for the purposes of, among other things, the 26% HDSA ownership guidelines under the Mining Charter. The position of Gold Fields, is consistent with that of the Chamber of Mines, and is that such empowerment transactions should be included in the calculation of HDSA ownership. The DMR and the Chamber of Mines have jointly agreed to approach the South African courts to seek a declaratory order which will provide a ruling on the relevant legislation and the status of the Mining Charter. If the DMR were to prevail in court, mining companies, including Gold Fields, may be required to undertake further transactions in order to increase their HDSA ownership which would result in the dilution of existing shareholders. In such event, mining companies may be required to maintain a minimum HDSA ownership level indefinitely. The DMR may also suspend or cancel the existing mining rights of, or prevent the obtaining of new mining rights by, mining companies, including Gold Fields, deemed not to be in compliance with the ownership requirements of the MPRDA. It is also possible, should the Chamber of Mines prevail in court, that the DMR may enact new regulations to, among other things, increase HDSA ownership guidelines for mining companies which would result in the dilution of existing shareholders. The DMR may also suspend or cancel existing mining rights of, or prevent the obtaining of new mining rights by, mining companies, including Gold Fields, deemed not to be in compliance with the other requirements of the MPRDA. If the DMR were to determine that Gold Fields is not in compliance with the other requirements of the MPRDA, Gold Fields may be required to engage in remedial steps, including changes to management and actions that require shareholder approval. 9 Table of Contents If the DMR were to determine that Gold Fields is not in compliance with the MPRDA, for any reason, including HDSA ownership, Gold Fields may challenge such a decision in court. Any such court action may be expensive and there is no guarantee that Gold Fields’ challenge would be successful. There is no guarantee that any steps Gold Fields has already taken or might take in the future will ensure the successful renewal of its existing mining rights, the retaining of new mining rights, the granting of further new mining rights or that the terms of renewals of its rights would not be significantly less favorable to Gold Fields than the terms of its current rights. Any further adjustment to the ownership structure of Gold Fields’ South African mining assets in order to meet BEE requirements could have a material adverse effect on the value of Gold Fields’ securities. Failure by Gold Fields to comply with mineral rights legislation in any of the jurisdictions in which it operates may cause it to lose the right to mine, fail to acquire new rights to mine and may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Further, Gold Fields may, in the future, incur significant costs as a result of changes in the interpretation of existing laws and guidelines, such as through the review of the Mining Charter in fiscal 2015 that has been announced by the South African government, or the imposition of new laws whether relating to the mining industry or otherwise, which may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. An actual or alleged breach or breaches in governance processes, or fraud, bribery and corruption may lead to public and private censure, regulatory penalties, loss of licenses or permits and impact negatively upon our empowerment status and may damage Gold Fields’ reputation. Gold Fields operates globally in multiple jurisdictions and with numerous and complex frameworks, and its governance and compliance processes may not prevent potential breaches of law or accounting or other governance practices. Gold Fields’ operating and ethical codes, among other standards and guidance, may not prevent instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty, nor guarantee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. Gold Fields has been informed that it is the subject of a regulatory investigation in the United States by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, relating to the Black Economic Empowerment, or BEE, transaction associated with the granting of the mining license for its South Deep operation. In South Africa, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, or the Hawks, has informed the Company that it has started a preliminary investigation into this BEE transaction to determine whether or not to proceed to a formal investigation, following a complaint by the Democratic Alliance. At this stage, it is not possible to determine what effect the ultimate outcome of these investigations, any regulatory findings and any related developments may have on the Company. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Regulatory Investigations.” To the extent that Gold Fields suffers from any actual or alleged breach or breaches of relevant laws (including South African anti-bribery and corruption legislation or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977) under any circumstances, they may lead to regulatory and civil fines, litigation, public and private censure, loss of operating licenses or permits and impact negatively upon our empowerment status and may damage Gold Fields’ reputation. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Due to the nature of mining and the extensive environmental footprint of the operations, environmental and industrial accidents and pollution may result in operational disruptions such as stoppages which could result in increased production costs as well as financial and regulatory liabilities. Gold mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards, including environmental hazards and industrial and mining accidents. These may include, for example, seismic events, fires, cave-ins and blockages, flooding, discharges of gases and toxic substances, contamination of water, air or soil resources, radioactivity and 10 Table of Contents other accidents or conditions resulting from mining activities including, among other things, blasting and the transport, storage and handling of hazardous materials. The occurrence of any of these hazards or risks could delay or halt production, increase production costs and result in financial and regulatory liability for Gold Fields (including as a result of the occurrence of hazards that took place at the Spin-off operations when they were owned by Gold Fields), which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Due to ageing infrastructure at our operations, unplanned breakdowns and stoppages may result in production delays, increased costs and industrial accidents. Once a shaft or a processing plant has reached the end of its intended lifespan, more than normal maintenance and care is required. Some of Gold Fields’ infrastructure in South Africa, Ghana and Australia falls into this category. Ageing infrastructure may also cause the Group to be unable to maintain throughput at its operations in Peru. Although Gold Fields has comprehensive strategies in place to address these issues, including maintenance and process plant optimization projects, incidents resulting in production delays, increased costs or industrial accidents may occur. Such incidents may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. If Gold Fields loses senior management or is unable to hire and retain sufficient technically skilled employees or sufficient HDSA representation in management positions, its business may be materially adversely affected. Gold Fields’ ability to operate or expand effectively depends largely on the experience, skills and performance of its senior management team and technically skilled employees. However, the mining industry, including Gold Fields, continues to experience a global shortage of qualified senior management and technically skilled employees. In particular, there is a shortage of mechanized mining skills in the South African gold mining industry. Gold Fields may be unable to hire or retain appropriate senior management, technically skilled employees or other management personnel, or may have to pay higher levels of remuneration than it currently intends in order to do so. Additionally, as a condition of our mining license at South Deep, we must ensure that there is sufficient HDSA participation in our management and core and critical skills, and failure to do so could result in fines or the loss or suspension of our mining license. If Gold Fields is not able to hire and retain appropriate management and technically skilled personnel or is unable to obtain sufficient HDSA representation in management positions or if there are not sufficient succession plans in place, this could have a material adverse effect on its business (including production levels), operating results and financial position. Because gold is generally sold in U.S. dollars, while some of Gold Fields’ production costs are in Australian dollars, Rand and other non-U.S. dollar currencies, Gold Fields’ operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed by a material change in the value of these non-U.S. dollar currencies. Gold is principally sold throughout the world in U.S. dollars. Gold Fields’ costs of production are incurred principally in U.S. dollars, Australian dollars, Rand and other currencies. Recent volatility in the Rand (including significant depreciation of the Rand against the U.S. dollar in recent years) and depreciation of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar in fiscal 2014 has made our costs in South Africa and Australia and results of operations less predictable than when exchange rates are more stable. As a result, any significant and sustained appreciation of any of these non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar may materially increase Gold Fields’ costs in U.S. dollar terms, which could materially adversely affect Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Conversely, inflation in any of the countries in which it operates could increase the prices Gold Fields pays for products and services and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition if not offset by increased gold prices. 11 Table of Contents Gold Fields may experience unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs in implementing its business strategy and projects, including any strategic projects, cost-cutting initiatives, divestments and other initiatives and any such strategy or project may not result in the anticipated benefits. The ability to grow the business will depend on the successful implementation of Gold Fields’ existing and proposed strategic initiatives, such as the ramping up of production at South Deep (which accounts for 73% of Gold Fields’ mineral reserves), and the achievement of a 15% free cash flow margin, or FCF Margin, at U.S.$1,300/oz. See “Information on the Company—Strategy.” The successful implementation of the Company’s strategic initiatives depends upon many factors, including those outside its control. For example, the successful achievement of a 15% FCF Margin at U.S.$1,300/oz. will depend on, among other things, prevailing market prices for input costs. Gold Fields may also prove unable to deliver on production targets and other strategic initiatives, including ramping-up of key capital projects, such as the South Deep mine in South Africa. Unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs may adversely affect the successful implementation of Gold Fields’ business strategy and projects, and such strategy and projects may not result in the anticipated benefits. For example, in 2014 South Deep experienced a 34% decrease in production principally due to the introduction of an extensive safety-related ground support remediation intervention and the imposition of a work stoppage by the DMR following three fatalities at the mine. Any such difficulties, delays or costs could prevent Gold Fields from fully implementing its business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields is in the process of implementing initiatives relating to its strategic alignment, including the reduction of marginal mining, cost-efficiency initiatives, increased brownfield exploration, production planning, cost-cutting and divestments. Any future contribution of these measures to profitability will be influenced by the actual benefits and savings achieved and by Gold Fields’ ability to sustain these ongoing efforts. Strategic alignment and cost-cutting initiatives may involve various risks, including, for example, labor unrest, operating licence withdrawal, and potential knock-on effects to other company projects and jurisdictions. The risk is elevated in South Africa, given Gold Fields’ mining licence obligations. See “—Gold Fields’ mineral rights are subject to legislation, which could impose significant costs and burdens and which impose certain ownership requirements, the interpretation of which are the subject of dispute.” In addition, these measures may not be implemented as planned; turn out to be less effective than anticipated; only become effective later than anticipated; or not be effective at all. Any of these outcomes, individually or in combination, may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. As part of its strategy, Gold Fields has stated that it intends to dispose of certain of its exploration and development assets. With respect to these and any other dispositions, Gold Fields’ may not be able to obtain prices that it expects for assets it seeks to dispose of or to complete the contemplated disposals in the timeframe contemplated or at all. Any of the above could have a negative impact on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Mining companies are increasingly required to operate in a sustainable manner and to provide benefits to affected communities. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in legal suits, additional operational costs, investor divestment and loss of ‘social licence to operate’, which could adversely impact Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Many mining companies face increasing pressure over their “social license to operate” which can be understood as the acceptance of the activities of these companies by local stakeholders. While formal permission to operate is ultimately granted by host governments, many mining activities require social permission from host communities and influential stakeholders to carry out operations effectively and profitably. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, while they seek a satisfactory return on investment for shareholders, the environment, human rights and other key sustainability issues are responsibly managed and stakeholders, such as employees, host communities and the countries in which they operate, also benefit from their commercial activities. The potential consequences of these pressures and the adverse publicity in cases where companies are believed not to be creating sufficient social and economic benefit or are perceived to not be 12 Table of Contents responsibly managing other sustainability issues may result in additional operating costs, reputational damage, active community opposition (possibly resulting in stoppages), allegations of human rights abuses, legal suits and investor withdrawal. In order to maintain its social license to operate, Gold Fields may need to design or redesign parts of its mining operations to minimize their impact on such communities and the environment, either by changing mining plans to avoid such impact, by modifying operations, or by relocating the affected people to an agreed location. Responsive measures may also include the full restoration of livelihoods of those impacted. In addition, Gold Fields is obliged to comply with the terms and conditions of all the mining rights it holds in South Africa. In this regard, the SLP provisions of our mining rights must make provision for local economic development, among other obligations. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matter—South Africa—Mineral Rights”. Gold Fields also undertakes social and economic development spending in Australia, Ghana and Peru, both voluntarily and as a condition of its mining licenses. See “Information on the Company—Sustainable Development”. In addition, as Gold Fields has a long history of mining operations in certain regions or has purchased operations which have a long history, issues may arise regarding historical as well as potential future environmental or health impacts in those areas. Delays in projects attributable to a lack of community support can translate directly into a decrease in the value of a project or into an inability to bring the project to, or maintain, production. The cost of measures and other issues relating to the sustainable development of mining operations could place significant demands on personnel resources, could increase capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse impact on Gold Fields’ reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields is subject to various regulatory costs, such as mining taxes and royalties, changes to which may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. In recent years, governments (local and national), communities, non-governmental organizations and trade unions in several jurisdictions have sought and, in some cases, have implemented greater cost imposts on the mining industry, including through the imposition of additional taxes and royalties. Such resource nationalism, whether in the form of cost imposts, interference in project management, mandatory social investment requirements, local content requirements or creeping expropriation could impact the global mining industry and Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. In South Africa, the African National Congress, or the ANC, has adopted two recommended approaches to interacting with the mining industry. While the ANC has rejected the possibility of mine nationalization for now, the first approach contemplates, among other things, greater state intervention in the mining industry, including the revision of existing royalties, the imposition of new taxes and an increase in the South African government’s holdings in mining companies. The second approach contemplates the South African government taking a more active role in the mining sector, including through the strengthening of a state mining company to be involved in new projects either through partnerships or individually. The adopted policies may impose additional restrictions, obligations, operational costs, taxes or royalty payments on gold mining companies, including Gold Fields, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. In 2012, the Ghanaian government increased taxes on mining companies. These changes included an increase in the corporate income tax from 25% to 35%, an increase in stool/land rents to U.S.$3,750 per km2 from U.S.$0.2 per km2, an increase in customs duties on mining equipment to 5% and the introduction of a temporary special import levy of 1% to 2%. Further, in Ghana, the ownership of land on which there are mineral deposits is separate from the ownership of the minerals. Mining companies must pay royalties of 5% of the total revenue earned from minerals. The government also has a right to obtain a 10% free-carried interest in mining leases. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Ghana—Mineral Rights.” In Peru, the general corporate income tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from January 1, 2015, and will be further reduced in future until it reaches 26% in 2019. In turn, the dividends income tax rate 13 Table of Contents applicable to non-resident shareholders has increased from 4.1% to 6.8% and will be further increased until it reaches 9.3% in 2019. These changes in rates are not immediately applicable to Gold Fields La Cima and Gold Fields Corona (BVI) as they have executed Legal Stability Agreements, which provide stability regarding certain aspects of the income tax, hiring and export legal regimes, with the Private Investment Promotion Agency, or PROINVERSION, which have stabilized the income tax rates in force on the date of their execution. However, after 2017, when the Legal Stability Agreements expire, Gold Fields La Cima and Gold Fields Corona (BVI) will be subject to the general regime in force at that time. Since July 2012, mining companies have also been required to pay an annual supervisory contribution to the the Supervisory Body of Investment in Energy and Mining (Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión en Energía y Minería), or the OSINERGMIN, as well as to the Assessment and Environment Supervising Agency (Organismo de Evaluación y Fiscalización Ambiental), or the OEFA. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru—Mining Royalty and Other Special Mining Taxes and Charges.” In addition, a consultation law has been enacted, requiring the government to consult with indigenous or native populations on legislative or administrative proposals that may have an impact on their collective rights. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Peru—Mining Royalty and Other Special Mining Taxes and Charges.” The impositions of additional restrictions, obligations, operational costs, taxes or royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Economic, political or social instability in the countries or regions where Gold Fields operates may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. In fiscal 2014, approximately 9%, 32%, 45% and 14% of Gold Fields’ production was in South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru, respectively. Changes or instability in the economic, political or social environment in any of these countries or in neighboring countries could affect an investment in Gold Fields. High levels of unemployment and a shortage of critical skills in South Africa, despite increased government expenditure on education and training, remain issues and deterrents to foreign investment. The volatile and uncertain labor environment, which severely impacts the local economy and investor confidence, has led, and may lead, to further downgrades in national credit ratings, making investment more expensive and difficult to secure. See “—Gold Fields’ operations and profits have been and may be adversely affected by union activity and new and existing labor laws.” This may restrict Gold Fields’ future access to international financing and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, while the South African government has stated that it does not intend to nationalize mining assets or mining companies, certain new smaller political parties have stated publicly and in the media that the government should embark on a program of nationalization. Any threats of, or actual proceedings to, nationalize any of Gold Fields’ assets, could halt or curtail operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition and could cause the value of Gold Fields’ securities to decline rapidly and dramatically, possibly causing investors to lose the entirety of their respective investments. There has also been regional social instability in the area around Gold Fields’ mining operations in Peru, where recent political developments in fiscal 2014 have resulted in the election of local and regional officeholders who have taken public positions opposed to mining operations. There is also the potential for social instability or protests regarding mining activity in the communities near Gold Fields’ South Deep mine relating to, among other things, community investment, environmental concerns, service delivery by local government or other issues. These developments could result in Gold Fields experiencing opposition in connection with its operations in Peru or South Africa. Such opposition at any of Gold Fields’ operations, in particular if it causes any stoppages, as well as any protests aimed at other mining operations that affect its operations, could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Power cost increases may adversely affect Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields’ South Deep mining operation depends upon electrical power generated by the state utility provider, Eskom Limited, or Eskom. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Costs.” Eskom holds a monopoly on power supply in the South African market. Eskom applied to the National Energy Regulator of South Africa, or NERSA, for tariff increases and for 2015 NERSA granted Eskom an average tariff increase of 12.69% effective April 1, 2015, being 8% plus 4.69% due to the clawing back by Eskom of prudent costs from the “Regulatory Clearing Account” for the three year period from April 2010 to March 2013. It has also been reported that Eskom intends to request permission to raise the power tariff by 25%, instead of 12.69%, in order to make up a cashflow shortfall. NERSA has given permission for Eskom to raise rates further but it is unclear what the actual rate increase will be. In addition, the South African Minister of Finance has announced a two per cent per kilowatt hour environmental levy on electricity. The actual legislated increase applicable to the South African mining industry effective April 1, 2014 was 8%. Should Gold Fields experience further power tariff increases, its business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. In Australia, Gold Fields’ St. Ives and Agnew/Lawlers mines contract for the supply of electricity with BHP Nickel-West under a power purchasing agreement. Granny Smith is expected to receive its future energy supply from a new gas pipeline, which has been constructed by the nearby Tropicana mine to supply gas to its operations. Access to this pipeline is subject to the construction of a gas power station, successful negotiations on gas supply and regulatory approval. If any of Gold Fields’ Australian operations were to lose their supply, or if Granny Smith is not able to access the proposed pipeline, replacement of this supply may entail a significant increase in costs due to the volatile Western Australian gas market. Any such increase in costs could have a material adverse impact on Gold Fields’ business and operating results. Both Gold Fields Ghana Limited, or Gold Fields Ghana, and Abosso Gold Fields Limited, or Abosso, concluded tariff negotiations for 2013, 2014 and 2015 with their respective power suppliers (the state electricity supplier, the Volta River Authority, or VRA, supplies power to Gold Fields Ghana and the Electricity Company of Ghana, or ECG, provides power to Abosso). ECG’s rate for the period January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2013 was $0.1809/kWh. ECG’s tariffs from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 was $0.216/kWh and that from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 is $0.23/kWh. Gold Fields Ghana has agreed tariffs with VRA with a base tariff of $0.1674/kWh. Although Gold Fields Ghana has also entered into an agreement with Genser Energy, or Genser, for the supply of off-grid electricity, any further increase in the electricity price could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business and operating results. See “Information on the Company—Description of Mining Business”. Power stoppages, fluctuations and usage constraints may force Gold Fields to halt or curtail operations. Electricity supply in South Africa remains constrained and future power disruptions are possible. Labor unrest in South Africa during fiscal 2012 disrupted the supply of coal to Eskom’s power station resulting in interrupted supply. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, rain impacted coal supply and placed serious strain on Eskom’s ability to provide power. In November 2014, Eskom declared a power emergency and required large industrial users, including Gold Fields’ South Deep operation, to reduce their electricity usage by 10% for five hours as part of a broader load shedding program. Eskom has warned that, while it has adopted a policy of asking households to reduce usage before asking industrial users to do so in order to reduce the economic impact of such disruptions, power constraints will continue. Gold Fields has been warned of possible load shedding under its voluntary load curtailment agreement with Eskom. Under this agreement, Gold Fields is required to reduce demand by up to 25% of load at the time, depending on the severity of the shortage, for a specified period of time during which the national grid is unable to maintain its load. Any further disruption or decrease in the electrical power supply available to Gold Fields’ South Deep operation could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Department of Energy is developing a power conservation program in an attempt to improve the power situation in South Africa and Eskom is embarking on the construction of new power stations, among other resources. However, there can be no assurance that these and other interventions will provide sufficient supply for the needs of the country or for Gold Fields to run its operations at full capacity or at all. 15 Table of Contents Although the VRA has not imposed any power cuts in Ghana since August 2006, frequent power interruptions have occurred in the power supplied by the ECG. There was an increase in power interruptions in fiscal 2014 which has led to an ongoing load shedding exercise. While the Ghanaian Ministry of Power has projected that the situation will improve by the end of March 2015, there can be no guarantee that further power interruptions will not occur. While Gold Fields has taken steps to source power from an independent power producer to complement its self-generation source, there can be no guarantee that Gold Fields will be able to source enough power to make up for any shortfall in the power supplied by ECG. Should Gold Fields continue to experience power outages, fluctuations or usage constraints at any of its operations, then its business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Actual and potential supply chain shortages and increases in the prices of production inputs may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ operations and profits. Gold Fields’ operating results may be affected by the availability and pricing of raw materials and other essential production inputs, including fuel, steel and cyanide and other reagents. The price and quality of raw materials may be substantially affected by changes in global supply and demand, along with weather conditions, governmental controls and other factors. A sustained interruption in the supply of any of these materials would require Gold Fields to find acceptable substitute suppliers and could require it to pay higher prices for such materials. Any significant increase in the prices of these materials will increase the Company’s operating costs and affect production considerations. The price of oil has been volatile, fluctuating between $56 and $115 per barrel of Brent Crude in 2014. As of March 16, 2015, the price of oil was at $53 per barrel of Brent Crude. Gold Fields entered into oil price hedging arrangements in respect of its Australian operations. Absent these arrangements and assuming there is no government intervention to stabilize oil prices, management estimates that for every $10 per barrel increase in the oil price, other factors remaining equal, the total all-in-cost at its operations in Ghana, Australia and Peru would increase by approximately $18, $5 and $7 per ounce, respectively. The all-in cost of certain of Gold Fields’ mines, particularly its West African mines, are most sensitive to changes in the price of oil. Furthermore, the price of steel has also been volatile. Steel is used in the manufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, which is a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditure of a mine. Fluctuations in oil and steel prices have a significant impact on operating costs and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects or render certain projects non-viable. Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may not adequately satisfy all potential claims in the future. Gold Fields has an insurance program, however, it may become subject to liability against which it has not insured, cannot insure or has insufficiently insured, including those in respect of past mining activities. Gold Fields’ existing property and liability insurance contains exclusions and limitations on coverage. For example, should Gold Fields be subject to any regulatory or criminal fines or penalties, these amounts would not be covered under its insurance program. Should Gold Fields suffer a major loss, future earnings could be affected. In addition, insurance may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future, Gold Fields’ insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against it or any cross-claims made. Gold Fields’ financial flexibility could be materially constrained by South African exchange control regulations. South Africa’s exchange control regulations, or the Exchange Control Regulations, restrict the export of capital from South Africa, the Republic of Namibia, and the Kingdoms of Lesotho and Swaziland, known collectively as the Common Monetary Area, or the CMA. Transactions between South African residents (including companies) and non-residents of the CMA are subject to exchange controls enforced by the South 16 Table of Contents African Reserve Bank, or SARB. As a result, Gold Fields’ ability to raise and deploy capital outside the CMA is restricted. These restrictions could hinder Gold Fields’ financial and strategic flexibility, particularly its ability to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and exploration projects outside South Africa. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Exchange Controls.” Gold Fields may suffer material adverse consequences as a result of its reliance on outside contractors to conduct some of its operations. A portion of Gold Fields’ operations in South Africa, Ghana, Australia and Peru are currently conducted by outside contractors. As a result, Gold Fields’ operations at those sites are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside Gold Fields’ control, including contract risk, execution risk, litigation risk, regulatory risk and labor risk. In addition, Gold Fields may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of its contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—South Africa”, “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Ghana”, “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Australia” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Labor Relations—Peru.” Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may materially adversely affect Gold Fields’ operations. Energy is a significant input and cost to Gold Fields’ mining and processing operations, with its principal energy sources being electricity, purchased petroleum products, natural gas and coal. A number of governments or governmental bodies, including the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change. Many of these contemplate restricting emissions of greenhouse gases in jurisdictions in which Gold Fields operates. In Australia, the Australian Clean Energy Act 2011 (Cth), or Clean Energy Act, and associated legislation establishing a national carbon pricing scheme, or Scheme, passed into law in November 2011. The Scheme was subsequently repealed with effect from July 1, 2014. The overall impact of the Scheme for the period prior to July 1, 2014 was approximately A$12 million per annum on Gold Fields’ Australian operations (including the Yilgarn South Assets). See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Environmental.” A carbon tax has been mooted in South Africa for some time, with the most recent indication of the government’s resolve to introduce the tax being the announcement, by the Minister of Finance in his 2015 Budget Speech, of the South African Treasury’s intention to release draft carbon tax legislation for public consultation during the first half of 2015 with a view to the implementation of the tax by mid-2016. At this time it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact of the proposed carbon tax on the Company. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—South Africa—Environmental.” In addition, a number of other regulatory initiatives are underway in countries in which Gold Fields operates that seek to reduce or limit industrial greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory initiatives will be either voluntary or mandatory and are likely to impact Gold Fields’ operations directly or by affecting the cost of doing business, for example by increasing the costs of its suppliers or customers. Inconsistency of regulations particularly between developed and developing countries may affect both Gold Fields’ decision to pursue opportunities in certain countries and its costs of operations. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which Gold Fields operates. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on Gold Fields’ operations are highly uncertain and may adversely impact the business, operating results and financial condition of Gold Fields’ operations. 17 Table of Contents Theft of gold and copper bearing materials and production inputs, as well as illegal and artisanal mining, occur on some of Gold Fields’ properties, are difficult to control, can disrupt Gold Fields’ business and can expose Gold Fields to liability. A number of Gold Fields’ properties have experienced illegal and artisanal mining activities and theft of gold and copper bearing materials and copper cables (which may be by employees or third parties). The activities of illegal and artisanal miners could lead to depletion of mineral reserves, potentially affecting the economic viability of mining certain areas and shortening the lives of the operations as well as causing possible operational disruption, project delays, disputes with illegal miners and communities, pollution or damage to property for which Gold Fields could potentially be held responsible, leading to fines or other costs. Rising gold and copper prices may result in an increase in gold and copper thefts. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other contagious diseases pose risks to Gold Fields in terms of lost productivity and increased costs. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in South Africa poses risks to Gold Fields in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and other costs. Compounding this are the concomitant infections, such as tuberculosis, that can accompany HIV illness, particularly at the end stages, and cause additional healthcare-related costs. If there is a significant increase in the incidence of HIV/AIDS infection and related diseases among the workforce, this may have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Health and Safety—Health—HIV/AIDS Program.” Additionally, the spread of contagious diseases such as respiratory diseases are exacerbated by communal housing and close quarters. The spread of such diseases could impact employees’ productivity, treatment costs and, therefore, operational costs. Gold Fields’ operations are subject to environmental and health and safety regulations, which could impose additional costs and compliance requirements and Gold Fields may face claims and liability for breaches, or alleged breaches, of such regulations and other applicable laws. Gold Fields’ operations are subject to various environmental and health and safety laws, regulations, permitting requirements and standards. For example, Gold Fields is required to secure estimated mine closure liabilities. The funding methods used to make provision for the required portion of the mine closure cost liabilities, in accordance with in-country legislation, are as follows: • South Africa: contributions into environmental trust funds and guarantees; • Ghana: reclamation bonds underwritten by banks, and restricted cash; • Australia: due to legislative changes in Western Australia becoming effective in July 2014, companies are now required to pay an annual levy to the State of 1% of the total mine closure liability. This levy goes into a State-administered fund known as the Mine Rehabilitation Fund which will be used to rehabilitate legacy sites or sites that have been prematurely closed or abandoned; and • Peru: bank guarantees. Gold Fields may in the future incur significant costs to comply with such environmental and health and safety requirements imposed under existing or new legislation, regulations or permit requirements or to comply with changes in existing laws and regulations or the manner in which they are applied. Gold Fields may also be subject to litigation and other costs as well as actions by authorities relating to environmental and health and safety matters, including mine closures, the suspension of operations and prosecution for industrial accidents as well as significant penalties and fines for non-compliance. These costs could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters.” 18 Table of Contents The principal health risks associated with Gold Fields’ mining operations in South Africa arise from occupational exposure and potential community environmental exposure to silica dust, noise and certain hazardous substances, including toxic gases and radioactive particulates. The most significant occupational diseases affecting Gold Fields’ workforce include lung diseases (such as silicosis, tuberculosis, a combination of the two and chronic obstructive airways disease, or COAD) as well as noise-induced hearing loss, or NIHL. Employees have sought and may continue to seek compensation for certain illnesses, such as silicosis, from their employer under workers compensation and also, at the same time, in a civil action under common law (either as individuals or as a class) as is the case with the silicosis individual and class action lawsuits. Such actions may also arise in connection with the alleged incidence of such diseases in communities proximate to Gold Fields’ mines. A consolidated application has been brought against several South African mining companies, including Gold Fields, for certification of a class action on behalf of current or former mineworkers (and their dependants) who have allegedly contracted silicosis and/or tuberculosis, while working for one or more of the mining companies listed in the application. The certification application will be heard in October 2015, and will be preceded by various legal technical applications and court processes. In addition to the class action, an individual silicosis-related action has been instituted against Gold Fields and one other mining company. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Silicosis.” If a significant number of such claims were suitably established against it, the payment of compensation for the claims and for any significant additional costs arising out of these issues could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. South Africa’s deputy Mineral Resources Minister has stated that the ministry may increase sanctions, including closures, for mines in which fatalities occur because of violations of health and safety rules. The DMR can and does issue, in the ordinary course of its operations, instructions, including Section 54 orders, following safety incidents or accidents to partially or completely halt operations at affected mines. It is also Gold Fields’ policy to halt production at its operations when serious accidents occur in order to rectify dangerous situations and, if necessary, retrain workers. In May and July 2014, the DMR imposed Section 54 work stoppage orders on Gold Fields’ South Deep operation following three fatalities at the mine, which led to the deferral of about 16,000 ounces of production. Gold Fields also embarked on a secondary support intervention which restricted access to certain parts of the mine, leading to the deferral of approximately 48,225 ounces of production in fiscal 2014 with knock-on effects in fiscal 2015. In addition, there can be no assurance that the unions will not take industrial action in response to such accidents which could lead to losses in Gold Fields’ production. Any additional stoppages in production, or increased costs associated with such incidents, could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Such incidents may also negatively affect Gold Fields’ reputation with, among others, employees and unions, South African regulators and regulators in other jurisdictions in which Gold Fields operates. Gold Fields could incur significant costs as a result of pending or threatened litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations—Silicosis.” Further, any new regulations, potential litigation or any changes to the health and safety laws which increase the burden of compliance or the penalties for non-compliance may cause Gold Fields to incur further significant costs and could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Health and Safety.” To the extent that Gold Fields seeks to add to its reserve base through exploration, it may experience problems associated with mineral exploration or developing mining projects. In order to expand its operations and reserve base, Gold Fields may rely on exploration for gold, and other metals associated with gold, as well as its ability to develop mining projects. Exploration for gold and other metals associated with gold is speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. To the extent that ore bodies are to be developed, it can take a number of years and substantial expenditures from the initial phases of drilling until production commences, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. In addition, to the extent Gold Fields participates in the development of a project through a joint 19 Table of Contents venture or any other multi-party commercial structure, there could be disagreements, legal or otherwise, or divergent interests or goals amongst the parties, which could jeopardize the success of the project. Furthermore, significant capital investment is required to achieve commercial production from exploration efforts. There is no assurance that Gold Fields will have, or be able to raise, the required funds to engage in these activities or to meet its obligations with respect to the exploration properties in which it has or may acquire an interest. Gold Fields’ operations are subject to water use licenses, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Under South African and Ghanaian laws, respectively, Gold Fields’ South Deep, Tarkwa and Damang operations are subject to water use licenses that govern each operation’s water usage and that require, among other things, mining operations to achieve and maintain certain water quality limits regarding all water discharges. Gold Fields is required to comply with these regulations under its permits and licenses and any failure to do so could result in the curtailment or halting of production at the affected locations. Gold Fields continues to use all reasonable and practical measures to remove underground water to permit the routine safe functioning of South Deep. South Deep was issued with a water use licence in November 2011. Certain conditions and other aspects of the approved license were identified as requiring modification and an application to address these was submitted to the Department of Water Affairs and Sanitation, or DWAS, in February 2012. A further amended water use license application was submitted to the DWAS in November 2013, primarily to reflect the results of a re-assessment of expected water use requirements and a changing water balance. No response was received from the DWAS in relation to the 2013 amendment. In November 2014, an agreement was reached with the DWAS to withdraw the 2013 amendment and to submit an updated amendment during the second quarter of fiscal 2015. The new amendment will reflect a variety of water management projects and initiatives that were implemented during fiscal 2014 and that are planned for implementation in fiscal 2015 and 2016. A presentation was provided to the DWAS in March 2015 to appraise them of the proposed structure and content of the new amendment, prior to the planned re-submission in April or May 2015. Gold Fields expects to incur significant expenditure to achieve and maintain compliance with the license requirements at South Deep and other regulatory requirements. Gold Fields is also implementing a water and environmental management strategy in an effort to satisfy the conditions of its water use license and other relevant water and environmental regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will be able to meet all of its water and environmental regulatory requirements, primarily due to the inherent uncertainties related to certain requirements of the legislation, which are subject to ongoing discussions between government and the mining industry through the Chamber of Mines. Any failure on Gold Fields’ part to achieve or maintain compliance with the requirements of its water use licenses with respect to any of its operations could result in Gold Fields being subject to substantial claims, penalties, fees and expenses; significant delays in operations; or the loss of the relevant water use license, which could curtail or halt production at the affected operation. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Gold Fields has experienced and may experience further acid mine drainage related pollution, which may compromise its ability to comply with legislative requirements or results in additional operating or closure cost liabilities. Acid mine drainage, or AMD, and acid rock drainage, or ARD (collectively called acid drainage, or AD), are caused when certain sulphide minerals in rocks are exposed to oxidizing conditions (such as the presence of oxygen, combined with water). AD can occur under natural conditions or as a result of the sulphide minerals that are encountered and exposed to oxidation during mining or during storage in waste rock dumps, ore stockpiles or tailings dams. The acidic water that forms usually contains iron and other metals if they are contained in the host rock. 20 Table of Contents AD generation, and the risk of potential long-term AD issues, specifically at Gold Fields’ Cerro Corona and South Deep mines, is ongoing. Immaterial levels of surface AD generation also occur at Gold Fields’ Tarkwa, Damang and St. Ives mines. Any AD which is currently generated is contained on Gold Fields property at all operations where it occurs and is managed as part of each mine’s operational water management strategy. The relevant regulatory authorities are also kept appraised of the Group’s efforts to manage AD through various submissions and other communications. Gold Fields continues to investigate technical solutions at both its South Deep and Cerro Corona mines to better inform appropriate strategies for long-term AD management (mainly post-closure), as well as to work towards a reliable cost estimate of these potential issues. None of these studies have allowed Gold Fields to generate a reliable estimate of the total potential impact on the Group. In addition, there can be no assurance that Gold Fields will be successful in preventing or managing long term potential AMD issues at these operations. Gold Fields’ mine closure cost estimate (namely environmental rehabilitation provisions) for fiscal 2014 contains the aspects of AD management (namely tailings facilities, waste rock dumps, ore stockpiles and other surface infrastructure), which Management has been able to reliably estimate. No adjustment for any effects on the Company that may result from potentially material (mainly post-closure) AD impacts at South Deep and Cerro Corona, has been made in the consolidated financial statements, other than through the Group’s normal environmental rehabilitation provisions. The existence of material long-term AD issues at any of Gold Fields’ operations could cause it to fail to comply with its water use license requirements and could expose Gold Fields to fines, mine closures, production curtailment, additional operating costs and other liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, production, operating results and financial condition. Some of Gold Fields’ tenements in Australia are subject to native title claims and include Aboriginal heritage sites, which could impose significant costs and burdens. Certain of Gold Fields’ tenements are subject to current native title claims. For example, a number of mining tenements held by St. Ives are the subject of an ongoing native title claim brought by the Ngadju People, or the Ngadju Native Title Claim. In July 2014, the Federal Court of Australia, or the Federal Court, held that the re-granting of certain of St. Ives’ tenements in 2004 by the State of Western Australia was not compliant with processes set out in the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth), or Native Title Act, and that the re-granted tenements were therefore invalid to the extent the exercise of rights under the tenements is inconsistent with the Ngadju People’s native title rights. Gold Fields announced on December 12, 2014 that an appeal had been lodged against the decision. See “Information on the Company—Legal Proceedings and Investigations— Ngadju Native Title Claim.” Other tenements may become the subject of native title claims if Gold Fields seeks to expand or otherwise change its interest in rights to those tenements. There are also a number of recognized Aboriginal cultural heritage sites located on certain of Gold Fields’ tenements. Native title and Aboriginal cultural heritage legislation protects the claims and determined rights of Aboriginal people in relation to the land and waters throughout Australia in certain circumstances. Native title claims such as the Ngadju Native Title Claim could require costly negotiations with the registered claimants and could have implications for Gold Fields’ access to or use of its tenements and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Similarly, there are risks that if Aboriginal cultural heritage sites are damaged or materially altered as a result of current or future operations, Gold Fields could be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties under relevant legislation. See “Information on the Company—Environmental and Regulatory Matters—Australia—Land Claims.” Gold Fields utilizes information technology and communications systems, the failure of which could significantly impact its operations and business. Gold Fields utilizes and is reliant on various information technology and communications systems, in particular SAP, payroll and time and attendance applications. Damage or interruption to Gold Fields’ information 21 Table of Contents technology and communications systems, whether due to accidents, human error, natural events or malicious acts, may lead to important data being irretrievably lost or damaged, thereby adversely affecting Gold Fields’ business, prospects and operating results. Gold Fields has provided certain guarantees on notes issued by Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited. If Gold Fields were to become obligated to make payments under these guarantees, its operating results would be materially and adversely impacted. On September 30, 2010, Gold Fields Orogen Holding (BVI) Limited, or Orogen, announced the issue of $1,000,000,000 4.875% guaranteed notes due October 7, 2020, or the Notes, issued on October 7, 2010. The payment of all amounts due in respect of the Notes was unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by Gold Fields, Sibanye Gold, Gold Fields Operations Limited, or GFO, and Gold Fields Holdings Company (BVI) Limited, or GFH, or, together, the Guarantors, on a joint and several basis. The Notes and guarantees constitute direct, unsubordinated and (subject to the negative pledge provisions related to further capital market indebtedness) unsecured obligations of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively, and rank equally with all other existing and future unsubordinated and unsecured obligations from time to time outstanding of Orogen and the Guarantors, respectively. Each of Gold Fields and the other Guarantors have entered into an indemnity agreement, or the Indemnity Agreement, in favor of Sibanye Gold in order to indemnify Sibanye Gold against any loss caused to Sibanye Gold in circumstances where Sibanye Gold is required to make a payment to noteholders or the trustee of the Notes by virtue of its guarantee of the Notes. On March 12, 2015, Orogen launched a consent solicitation process seeking to obtain a consent from the holders of the Notes to, among other things, the release of Sibanye Gold as Guarantor of the Notes, or the Consent Solicitation. A meeting of Note holders seeking to approve the Consent Solicitation was held on April 7, 2015 and was adjourned due to lack of a quorum to April 22, 2015. There can be no guarantee that the Consent Solicitation will be approved and that Sibanye Gold will be released as Guarantor of the Notes. If the Consent Solicitation is not approved, Sibanye Gold will continue to be a Guarantor of Notes and the Indemnity Agreement will remain in place. If Gold Fields or the other Guarantors were to become obligated to indemnify Sibanye Gold, it could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results and financial condition. Further, market conditions may negatively impact Gold Fields’ ability to obtain financing for amounts it becomes required to pay under its obligations as guarantor, as well as the rate of interest required to finance these amounts. Our high debt levels pose risks to our viability and may make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions, as well as other adverse developments. Gold Fields carries significant debt relative to its shareholder equity. As of December 31, 2014, Gold Fields’ consolidated debt was approximately $1.91 billion. Approximately $0.79 billion of Gold Fields’ consolidated debt securities come due over the 36 months following the date of this annual report. Gold Fields’ significant levels of debt can adversely affect it in several other respects, including: • limiting its ability to access the capital markets; • exposing it to the risk of credit rating downgrades, which would raise its borrowing costs and could limit its access to capital; • hindering its flexibility to plan for or react to changing market, industry or economic conditions; • limiting the amount of cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, or other uses; • making it more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; • increasing the risk that it will need to sell assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; or • increasing the risk that it may not meet the financial covenants contained in its debt agreements or timely make all required debt payments. 22 Table of Contents The effects of each of these factors could be intensified if Gold Fields increases its borrowings. Any failure to make required debt payments could, among other things, adversely affect Gold Fields’ ability to conduct operations or raise capital, which could have a material adverse effect on Gold Fields’ business, operating results or financial condition. Shareholders outside South Africa may not be able to participate in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. Securities laws of certain jurisdictions may restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow participation by certain shareholders in future issues of securities (including ordinary shares) carried out by or on behalf of Gold Fields. In particular, holders of Gold Fields securities who are located in the United States (including those who hold ordinary shares or ADSs) may not be able to participate in securities offerings by or on behalf of Gold Fields unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such securities or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available thereunder. Securities laws of certain other jurisdictions may also restrict Gold Fields’ ability to allow the participation of all holders in such jurisdictions in future issues of securities carried out by Gold Fields. Holders who have a registered address or are resident in, or who are citizens of, countries other than South Africa should consult their professional advisors as to whether they require any governmental or other consents or approvals or need to observe any other formalities to enable them to participate in any offering of Gold Fields securities. Investors in the United States and other jurisdictions outside South Africa may have difficulty bringing actions, and enforcing judgments, against Gold Fields, its directors and its executive officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any state thereof or under the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa. Gold Fields is incorporated in South Africa. All of Gold Fields’ directors and executive officers (as well as Gold Fields’ independent registered public accounting firm) reside outside of the United States. Substantially all of the assets of these persons and substantially all of the assets of Gold Fields are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to enforce against these persons or Gold Fields a judgment obtained in a United States court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities or other laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, investors in other jurisdictions outside South Africa may face similar difficulties. Investors should be aware that it is the policy of South African courts to award compensation for the loss or damage actually sustained by the person to whom the compensation is awarded. Although the award of punitive damages is generally unknown to the South African legal system, it does not mean that such awards are necessarily contrary to public policy. South African courts cannot enter into the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. South African courts will usually implement their own procedural laws and, where an action based on an international contract is brought before a South African court, the capacity of the parties to the contract will usually be determined in accordance with South African law. It is doubtful whether an original action based on United States federal securities laws or the laws of other jurisdictions outside South Africa may be brought before South African courts. Further, a plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs in the event of proceedings being initiated in South Africa. In addition, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated for the purpose of use in South Africa. Investors should also be aware that a foreign judgment is not directly enforceable in South Africa, but constitutes a cause of action which will be enforced by South African courts only if certain conditions are met. Investors may face liquidity risk in trading Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on JSE Limited. Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. The ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of Gold Fields’ ordinary shares on the JSE in a timely manner, especially in a large block trade, may be restricted by this limited liquidity. See “The Offer and Listing—JSE Limited”. 23 Table of Contents Gold Fields may not pay dividends or make similar payments to its shareholders in the future and any dividend payment may be subject to withholding tax. Gold Fields pays cash dividends only if funds are available for that purpose. Whether funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including the amount of cash available and Gold Fields’ capital expenditures (on both existing infrastructure as well as on exploration and other projects) and other cash requirements existing at the time. Under South African law, Gold Fields will be entitled to pay a dividend or similar payment to its shareholders only if it meets the solvency and liquidity tests set out in the Companies Act No. 71 of 2008, or the Companies Act, and Gold Fields’ Memorandum of Incorporation. Given these factors and the Board of Directors’ discretion to declare cash dividends or other similar payments, dividends may not be paid in the future. It should be noted that a 15% withholding tax on dividends declared by South African resident companies to non-resident shareholders or non-resident ADS holders was introduced with effect from April 1, 2012. See “Additional Information—Taxation—Certain South African Tax Considerations—Withholding Tax on Dividends”. Gold Fields’ non-South African shareholders face additional investment risk from currency exchange rate fluctuations since any dividends will be paid in Rand. Dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares have historically been paid in Rand. The U.S. dollar or other currency equivalent of future dividends or distributions with respect to Gold Fields’ ordinary shares, if any, will be adversely affected by potential future reductions in the value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. In the future, it is possible that there will be changes in South African Exchange Control Regulations, such that dividends paid out of trading profits will not be freely transferable outside South Africa to shareholders who are not residents of the CMA. See “Additional Information—South African Exchange Control Limitations Affecting Security Holders”. Gold Fields’ ordinary shares are subject to dilution upon the exercise of Gold Fields’ outstanding share options. Shareholders’ equity interests in Gold Fields will be diluted to the extent of future exercises or settlements of rights under the Gold Fields Limited 2012 Share Plan, the Gold Fields Limited 2005 Share Plan, and any additional rights. See “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The Gold Fields Limited 2012 Share Plan” and “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—The Gold Fields Limited 2005 Share Plan”. Gold Fields shares are also subject to dilution in the event that the Board is required to issue new shares in compliance with BEE legislation. 24 Table of Contents 