Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In the near-term, the success of our business will depend on many factors, including: • whether we are able to maintain and increase market demand for, and sales of, our currently marketed prescription products — Zegerid® (omeprazole/sodium bicarbonate) Capsules and Powder for Oral Suspension and Glumetza® (metformin hydrochloride extended release tablets); • whether we are able to maintain patent protection for our products, including whether favorable outcomes are obtained in the pending patent infringement lawsuits relating to our Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products; • whether we are successful in progressing the development (including successful completion of the ongoing and planned phase III clinical studies), obtaining regulatory approval for and advancing the commercialization of our development product candidates, budesonide MMX® and rifamycin SV MMX; and • whether we are successful in generating revenue under our strategic alliances, including our over-the-counter, or OTC, license agreement with Schering-Plough HealthCare Products, Inc., or Schering-Plough, a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., our license and distribution agreements with Glaxo Group Limited, an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GSK, and our license agreement with Norgine B.V., or Norgine. Each of these factors, as well as other factors that may impact our business, are described in more detail in the following discussion. Although the factors highlighted above are among the most significant, any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time, and you should consider all of the factors described when evaluating our business. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We depend on the commercial success of the Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to maintain and increase sales of these products. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to generate revenues will depend in large part on the commercial success of our currently marketed Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products, which in turn, will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • successfully maintain and increase market demand for, and sales of, these products through the promotional efforts of our own sales force, the contract sales representatives under our agreement with inVentiv Commercial Services, LLC, or inVentiv, and any other promotional arrangements that we may later establish; • successfully maintain patent protection for these products, including whether favorable outcomes are obtained in the pending patent infringement lawsuits relating to these products; • obtain greater acceptance of the products by physicians and patients and obtain and maintain distribution at the retail level; • maintain adequate levels of reimbursement coverage for our products from third-party payors, particularly in light of the availability of other branded and generic competitive prescription and OTC products; • establish and maintain agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; and • maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers as necessary to meet commercial demand for the products. In addition, the occurrence of adverse side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy of the Zegerid or Glumetza products, and any resulting product liability claims or product recalls, could impact our ability to increase sales of these products. We cannot be certain that our continued marketing of the Zegerid and Glumetza products will result in increased demand for, and sales of, those products. If we fail to successfully commercialize our prescription products, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to grow our business and sustain profitability, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may not continue to generate adequate revenues under our promotion agreement for Glumetza products to justify our level of promotional effort and expense under the agreement. In July 2008, we entered into a promotion agreement with Depomed, Inc., or Depomed, pursuant to which we agreed to promote Depomed’s Glumetza prescription products in the U.S. Under the terms of the promotion agreement, Depomed pays us a fee of 80% (through September 30, 2010) and 75% (for all periods thereafter) of the gross margin earned from all net sales of Glumetza products in the U.S., with gross margin defined as net sales less cost of goods including product-related fees paid by Depomed to Biovail Laboratories International SRL. We paid Depomed a $12.0 million upfront fee, and based on the achievement of specified levels of annual Glumetza net product sales. We may also be required to pay Depomed one-time sales milestones, totaling up to $16.0 million in aggregate, the first of which milestones is in the amount of $3.0 million and is payable if annual Glumetza net product sales exceed $50.0 million. We are also responsible for all costs associated with our sales force and for all other sales and marketing-related expenses associated with our promotion of Glumetza products. We began promotion of Glumetza products in October 2008. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to continue to generate adequate revenues under the promotion agreement to justify the resources and the level of promotional effort we will have to expend is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the previous risk factor relating to our ability to increase sales of the Glumetza products, as well as the potential for termination of the promotion arrangement and Depomed’s ability to maintain commercial supply and patent protection for the Glumetza products. In addition, the promotion of the Glumetza products could detract from our sales representatives’ efforts to promote our Zegerid products and have an adverse impact on Zegerid sales. If our promotion efforts are not successful, our ability to continue to generate sufficient revenues to grow our business and sustain profitability may be adversely affected. Our budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates will require significant development activities and ultimately may not be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and any failure or delays associated with these activities or the FDA’s approval of such products would increase our costs and time to market. We are currently developing our budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates under a strategic collaboration with Cosmo Technologies Limited, or Cosmo, and in connection with those development programs we face substantial risks of failure that are inherent in developing pharmaceutical products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by many different agencies at the federal, state and international levels. For example, our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA will approve them for commercial use. Product development is generally a long, expensive and uncertain process. Successful development of product formulations depends on many factors, including our ability to select key components, establish a stable formulation (for both development and commercial use), develop a product that demonstrates our intended safety and efficacy profile, and transfer from development stage to commercial-scale operations. Any delays we encounter during our product development activities would in turn adversely affect our ability to commercialize the product under development. Once we have manufactured formulations of our product candidates that we believe will be suitable for clinical testing, we then must complete our clinical testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. These clinical tests must comply with FDA and other applicable regulations. We may encounter delays based on our inability to timely enroll enough patients to complete our clinical studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after showing promising results in earlier studies. The results of later clinical studies may not replicate the results of prior clinical studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical studies, we may decide to discontinue development of a product candidate. We or the FDA may suspend clinical studies at any time if the patients participating in the studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our applications to conduct the clinical studies or in the conduct of our studies. Moreover, not all product candidates in clinical studies will receive timely, or any, regulatory approval. In addition, before the FDA approves one of our product candidates, the FDA may choose to conduct an inspection of one or more clinical sites where our clinical studies were conducted. These inspections may be conducted by the FDA both at U.S. clinical sites as well as overseas. Any restrictions on the ability of FDA investigators to travel overseas to conduct such inspections, either because of financial or other reasons including political unrest, disease outbreaks or terrorism, could delay the inspection of our overseas sites and consequently delay FDA approval of our product candidates. Even if clinical studies are completed as planned, their results may not support our assumptions or our product claims. The clinical study process may fail to demonstrate that our products are safe for humans or effective for their intended uses. Our product development costs will increase and our product revenues will be delayed if we experience delays in testing or regulatory approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical studies than planned. In addition, such failures could cause us to abandon a product entirely. If we fail to take any current or future product from the development stage to market, we will have incurred significant expenses without the possibility of generating revenues, and our business will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Budesonide MMX is currently being evaluated for the treatment of ulcerative colitis in a phase III clinical program. Two multicenter, double-blind phase III clinical studies to evaluate budesonide MMX for the induction of remission in patients with mild or moderate active ulcerative colitis are underway in North America and Europe, both of which are intended to support U.S. regulatory approval. Enrollment in the European phase III clinical study induction phase was completed in December 2009 and enrollment in the U.S. clinical program induction phase is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2010. Additionally, up to approximately 150 patients from the European and U.S. programs are expected to continue in a 12-month, double-blind, extended use study, the results of which the FDA requested be included in the phase III clinical program to support a U.S. regulatory submission. We currently anticipate that we will have preliminary results from the European phase III clinical program, excluding the extension study, late in the second quarter of 2010 and from the U.S phase III clinical program in the second half of 2010. Assuming successful and timely completion of the phase III clinical program and extension study, we plan to submit an NDA for budesonide MMX to the FDA in the second half of 2011. We plan to initiate a phase III clinical program evaluating rifamycin SV MMX in patients with travelers’ diarrhea in the second quarter of 2010. Assuming timely and successful completion of the first study, we plan to initiate a second phase III clinical study in travelers’ diarrhea in the first half of 2011. It is anticipated that a European phase III clinical study in the same indication will be conducted by Cosmo’s European partner Dr. Falk Pharma GmbH, or Dr. Falk. Assuming successful completion of the phase III clinical program, Santarus and Dr. Falk plan to share their clinical data for inclusion in each company’s respective regulatory submissions. We cannot be certain that the ongoing and planned clinical development programs will proceed in a timely manner. We also cannot be certain that the budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates will achieve the desired safety and efficacy profile in one or more of the ongoing or future clinical studies or that the other development activities will be completed in a successful and timely manner. For example, the phase II clinical study for the budesonide MMX product candidate was pilot in nature and involved a different design than the currently ongoing phase III clinical studies. As a result, there may be a higher degree of uncertainty regarding the potential outcome of the phase III clinical studies. Any failures or delays in the product development or clinical programs relating to our product candidates could adversely affect our ability to commercialize one or more of our development-stage products and the timing for commercial availability, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Our reliance on third-party clinical investigators and clinical research organizations may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical studies or we may be unable to use the clinical data gathered if they fail to comply with our patient enrollment criteria, our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or otherwise fail to perform under our agreements with them. As an integral component of our clinical development programs, we engage clinical investigators and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to enroll patients and conduct and manage our clinical studies, including in the case of our budesonide MMX product candidate, a CRO located in India. In addition, it is anticipated that U.S. regulatory approval for each of the budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates will be supported in part by clinical studies being conducted by Cosmo or its European partners, in addition to the clinical studies that we will oversee or conduct. As a result, many key aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If the CROs and other third parties that we rely on for patient enrollment and other portions of our clinical studies fail to perform the clinical studies in a timely and satisfactory manner and in compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign regulations, we could face significant delays in completing our clinical studies or we may be unable to rely in the future on the clinical data generated. If these clinical investigators and CROs do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our patient enrollment criteria, our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated, we may be required to repeat one or more of our clinical studies and we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. 27 Table of Contents Our ability to generate revenues also depends on the success of our strategic alliances with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine, many aspects of which are out of our control. Our ability to generate revenues in the longer term will also depend on whether our strategic alliances with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine lead to the successful commercialization of additional omeprazole products using our proprietary proton pump inhibitor, or PPI, technology, and we cannot be certain that we will receive any additional milestone payments or sales-based royalties from these alliances. In November 2007, we entered into a license agreement and a distribution agreement granting exclusive rights to GSK under our proprietary PPI technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize prescription and OTC products in up to 114 specified countries within Africa, Asia, the Middle-East, and Central and South America, and to distribute and sell Zegerid brand prescription products in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In October 2006, we entered into an OTC license agreement with Schering-Plough, pursuant to which we granted exclusive rights under our proprietary PPI technology to develop, manufacture, market and sell omeprazole products for the OTC market in the U.S. and Canada. In October 2009, we entered into a license agreement granting certain exclusive rights to Norgine under our proprietary PPI technology to develop, manufacture and commercialize prescription products in specified markets in Western, Central and Eastern Europe and in Israel. Under these agreements, we depend on the efforts of GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine, and we have limited control over their commercialization efforts. For example, GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine may not commercialize products as fast as we would like or as fast as the market may expect and may not generate the level of sales that we would like. GSK is currently distributing and selling our Zegerid prescription products in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and is working to prepare the filings necessary to obtain marketing approval authorization in various countries covered by the license agreement. In December 2009, Schering-Plough received FDA approval for its first product under the license agreement, Zegerid OTC™ (omeprazole 20 mg/sodium bicarbonate 1100 mg capsules). It is anticipated that Schering-Plough will commence shipments of Zegerid OTC in late March 2010 and that the product will be available on retailers’ shelves in April 2010. Norgine is currently assessing its development and regulatory strategy with respect to its licensed prescription products. We cannot be certain that GSK, Schering-Plough or Norgine will be successful in their current efforts. Any failures by GSK, Schering-Plough or Norgine could have a negative impact on physician and patient impressions of our prescription products in the U.S. Even if GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine’s efforts are successful, we will only receive specified milestone payments and royalties on net sales and may not enjoy the same financial rewards as we would have had we developed and launched the products ourselves. We are also subject to risks associated with termination of our agreements with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine. The GSK license and distribution agreements may be terminated by either party in the event of the other party’s uncured material breach or bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, GSK may terminate the license and distribution agreements on six months prior written notice to us at any time. The Schering-Plough license agreement may be terminated by either party if the other party is in material breach of its material obligations, subject to certain limitations. In addition, Schering-Plough may terminate the agreement in its entirety on 180 days prior written notice to us at any time. The Norgine license agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of the other party’s uncured material breach or bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, Norgine may terminate the license agreement on 12 months’ prior written notice to us at any time. If GSK, Schering-Plough or Norgine fail to successfully commercialize products using our proprietary PPI technology or are significantly delayed in doing so, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to grow our business and sustain profitability, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our pending NDA supplement relating to the brand name for our recently approved immediate-release omeprazole tablet product may not be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, or at all, which would adversely impact our ability to commercialize this product. In December 2009, the FDA approved our NDA for our new immediate-release omeprazole tablet product, which combines omeprazole with a mix of buffers; however, the FDA has not yet approved a trade name for the new product. We submitted an NDA supplement requesting approval of a proposed trade name that includes the “Zegerid” brand name and anticipate that the FDA will complete its review of this NDA supplement in June 2010. Ultimately, the FDA may not approve our proposed trade name for the tablet product in a timely manner or at all, and we may be forced to utilize a trade name that does not reference the Zegerid family of products. Any failure to obtain FDA approval of our proposed trade name or delay associated with the FDA’s review process could adversely impact our ability to commercialize this product, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience, which may limit our commercial opportunity. The pharmaceutical industry is intensely competitive, particularly in the gastrointestinal, or GI, and diabetes fields in which our currently marketed products compete and our development-stage products may compete, and there are many other currently marketed products that are well-established and successful, as well as development programs underway. In addition, many of our competitors are large, well-established companies in the pharmaceutical field. Given our relatively small size and the nature of the GI and diabetes markets, we may not be able to compete effectively. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, may have significantly greater experience in: • developing prescription and OTC drugs; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical studies; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; and • launching, marketing, distributing and selling drugs. As a result, they may have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, manufacturing, marketing and other programs. Many of these companies may succeed in developing products earlier than we do, completing the regulatory process and showing safety and efficacy of products more rapidly than we do or developing products that are more effective than our products. Additionally, many of our competitors have greater resources to conduct clinical studies differentiating their products, as compared to our limited resources. Further, the products they develop may be based on new and different technology and may exhibit benefits relative to our products. Many of these companies with which we compete also have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Larger pharmaceutical companies typically have significantly larger field sales force organizations and invest significant amounts in advertising and marketing their products, including through the purchase of television advertisements and the use of other direct-to-consumer methods. As a result, these larger companies are able to reach a greater number of physicians and consumers and reach them more frequently than we can with our smaller sales organization. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our currently marketed products compete with many other drug products, which could put downward pressure on pricing and market share and limit our ability to generate revenues. Our Zegerid prescription products compete with many other products, including: • branded PPI prescription products (such as Nexium®, Aciphex® and Kapidex™); • generic PPI prescription products (such as delayed-release omeprazole, delayed-release lansoprazole and delayed-release pantoprazole); • OTC PPI products (such as Prilosec OTC®, Prevacid® 24HR and store-brand versions); and • other prescription and/or OTC acid-reducing agents (such as histamine-2 receptor antagonists and antacids). Furthermore, the availability of products developed by Schering-Plough using our proprietary PPI technology for the U.S. OTC market could decrease demand or negatively impact reimbursement coverage for our prescription products in the U.S. 29 Table of Contents In addition, various companies are developing new products that may compete with our Zegerid prescription and OTC products in the future, including new PPIs, motility agents, reversible acid inhibitors, cytoprotective compounds and products that act on the lower esophageal sphincter, or LES. Similarly, the Glumetza prescription products compete with many other products, including: • other branded immediate-release and extended-release metformin products (such as Fortamet®, Glucophage® and Glucophage XR®); • generic immediate-release and extended-release metformin products; and • other prescription diabetes treatments. In addition, various companies are developing new products that may compete with the Glumetza products in the future. For example, Depomed has announced that it has licensed rights to Merck to develop products combining sitagliptin, the active ingredient in Merck’s Januvia® product, with extended-release metformin utilizing Depomed’s extended-release technology. We or our strategic partners may also face competition for our products from lower-priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower-priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada and other developed countries. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. The existence of numerous competitive products may put downward pressure on pricing and market share, which in turn may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate levels of reimbursement for our products on reasonable pricing terms, the commercial success of our products may be severely hindered. Our ability to sell our products may depend in large part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products is available from private health insurers, managed care organizations, government entities and others. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain their costs. We cannot predict actions third-party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. Reduced or partial reimbursement coverage could make our products less attractive to patients, suppliers and prescribing physicians and may not be adequate for us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in our products or compete on price. Based on our assessment of the overall cost associated with continued participation, we have recently elected to terminate our existing Medicaid drug rebate agreements, effective as of October 2009. Although we believe the termination of these agreements will not have an unfavorable impact on our business and financial results, we cannot be certain. Since we are no longer participating in the Medicaid segment of the market, as expected, we experienced a reduction in Zegerid prescription levels. Termination of these agreements may also negatively impact physician prescribing practices over a longer term period. In addition, we will incur additional costs to the extent we decide to participate in Medicaid in the future. In many cases, insurers and other healthcare payment organizations encourage the use of less expensive alternative generic brands and OTC products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. For example, in the case of our Zegerid prescription products, the availability of generic prescription and OTC PPI products has created, and will continue to create, a competitive reimbursement environment. Insurers and other healthcare payment organizations frequently make the generic or OTC alternatives more attractive to the patient by providing different amounts of reimbursement so that the net cost of the generic or OTC product to the patient is less than the net cost of a prescription branded product. Aggressive pricing policies by our generic or OTC product competitors and the prescription benefit policies of insurers could have a negative effect on our product revenues and profitability. In addition, even though we are eligible to receive sales-based royalties on OTC products under our OTC Zegerid license agreement with Schering-Plough, those potential revenues could be offset by the impact of lost sales of our prescription products to the extent the OTC products are preferred by customers over our current prescription products. 30 Table of Contents The competition among pharmaceutical companies to have their products approved for reimbursement also results in downward pricing pressure in the industry and in the markets where our products compete. In some cases, we aggressively discount our products in order to obtain reimbursement coverage, and we may not be successful in any efforts we take to mitigate the effect of a decline in average selling prices for our products. Declines in our average selling prices also reduce our gross margins. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products on favorable terms, we will have difficulty sustaining market acceptance of our products and our business will be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of wholesaler customers for retail distribution of our Zegerid products, and if we lose any of our significant wholesaler customers, our business could be harmed. Our wholesaler customers for our Zegerid products include some of the nation’s leading wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, such as Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and major drug chains. Sales to Cardinal, McKesson and AmerisourceBergen accounted for approximately 27%, 24% and 15%, respectively, of our annual revenues during 2009. The loss of any of these wholesaler customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from our wholesaler customers. We do not currently have any manufacturing facilities and instead rely on third-party manufacturers. We rely on third-party manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis, and we do not currently have any of our own manufacturing or distribution facilities. Our manufacturers must comply with U.S. regulations, including the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, applicable to the manufacturing processes related to pharmaceutical products, and their facilities must be inspected and approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies on an ongoing basis as part of their business. In addition, because several of our key manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., they must also comply with applicable foreign laws and regulations. We have limited control over our third-party manufacturers, including with respect to regulatory compliance and quality assurance matters. Any delay or interruption of supply related to a third-party manufacturer’s failure to comply with regulatory or other requirements would limit our ability to make sales of our products. Any manufacturing defect or error discovered after products have been produced and distributed could result in even more significant consequences, including costly recall procedures, re-stocking costs, damage to our reputation and potential for product liability claims. With respect to any future products under development, if the FDA finds significant issues with any of our manufacturers during the pre-approval inspection process, the approval of those products could be delayed while the manufacturer addresses the FDA’s concerns, or we may be required to identify and obtain the FDA’s approval of a new supplier. This could result in significant delays before manufacturing of our products can begin, which in turn would delay commercialization of our products. In addition, the importation of pharmaceutical products into the U.S. is subject to regulation by the FDA, and the FDA can refuse to allow an imported product into the U.S. if it is not satisfied that the product complies with applicable laws or regulations. For our Zegerid prescription products, we currently rely on Norwich Pharmaceuticals, Inc., located in New York, as the sole third-party manufacturer of Zegerid Capsules. In addition, we rely on a single third-party manufacturer, Patheon Inc., using a manufacturing facility located in Canada, for the supply of Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension. We recently amended our agreement with Patheon to provide that Patheon will serve as a second commercial supplier of Zegerid Capsules, and we are currently working to qualify Patheon as a supplier for this product, which will ultimately require regulatory approval of an NDA supplement. We currently rely on a single third-party supplier located outside of the U.S., Union Quimico Farmaceutica, S.A., or Uquifa, for the supply of omeprazole, which is an active pharmaceutical ingredient in each of our current Zegerid products. We are obligated under our supply agreement with Uquifa to purchase all of our requirements of omeprazole from this supplier. 31 Table of Contents For the Glumetza products, we rely on Depomed to oversee product manufacturing and supply. In turn, Depomed relies on a single third-party manufacturer for each of the Glumetza products. For our budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates, we rely on Cosmo to manufacture and supply all of our drug product requirements. Any significant problem that our sole source manufacturers or suppliers experience could result in a delay or interruption in the supply to us until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate an alternative source of supply. In addition, because our sole source manufacturers and suppliers provide services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, they may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. In addition, to the extent one or more of our strategic partners utilizes our suppliers for our Zegerid prescription products, capacity at those suppliers may become further constrained. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third-party manufacturers with the manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities necessary to manufacture the finished forms of our pharmaceutical products or the key ingredients in our products is limited, and it would take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative manufacturers. Any new supplier of products or key ingredients would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical studies, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier before we could distribute products from that supplier. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. Our reporting and payment obligations under governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions, and any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to penalties and sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As a condition of reimbursement by various federal and state healthcare programs, we must calculate and report certain pricing information to federal and state healthcare agencies. The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to governmental programs are complex. Our calculations and methodologies are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in material changes. In addition, because our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to the risk of errors. Any failure to comply with the government reporting and payment obligations could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. Regulatory approval for our currently marketed products is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which our products are deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and for uses that differ from those tested in clinical studies and approved by the regulatory authorities, our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. These “off-label” uses are common across medical specialties and may constitute an appropriate treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. Regulatory authorities in the U.S. generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. Regulatory authorities do, however, restrict communications by pharmaceutical companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay its approval or refuse to approve a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of our currently marketed products. Following receipt of regulatory approval, any products that we market continue to be subject to extensive regulation. These regulations impact many aspects of our operations, including the manufacture, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the products. The FDA also frequently requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of these products. For example, in connection with the approval of our NDAs for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, we committed to commence clinical studies to evaluate the product in pediatric populations in 2005. We have not yet commenced any of the studies and, prior to doing so, will need to finalize study designs, including receiving FDA input on one of the proposed study designs, engage clinical research organizations and undertake other related activities. In addition, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Violations of the anti-kickback statute are punishable by imprisonment, criminal fines, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to have a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly inflating drug prices they report to pricing services, which in turn are used by the government to set Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, and for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate false claims laws. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Additionally, several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing various other marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, California, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 33 Table of Contents Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as part of the sales and marketing process, pharmaceutical companies frequently provide samples of approved drugs to physicians. This practice is regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities, including, in particular, requirements concerning record keeping and control procedures. Any failure to comply with the regulations may result in significant criminal and civil penalties as well as damage to our credibility in the marketplace. We are subject to new legislation, regulatory proposals and managed care initiatives that may increase our costs of compliance and adversely affect our ability to market our products, obtain collaborators and raise capital. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry, including reductions in the cost of prescription products, changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products, proposals concerning reimportation of pharmaceutical products and proposals concerning safety matters. For example, in an attempt to protect against counterfeiting and diversion of drugs, Congress is considering legislation that would establish an electronic drug pedigree and track-and-trace system capable of electronically recording and authenticating every sale of a drug unit throughout the distribution chain. California has already enacted legislation that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the saleable unit level through the distribution system (an electronic pedigree would be generated by the attachment of a device incorporating a unique identifier to each container of prescription drugs, which would be read electronically and tracked through a database as it passes through each stage of the distribution chain). California’s electronic pedigree requirement is scheduled to take effect beginning in January 2015. Compliance with California and any future federal or state electronic pedigree requirements will likely require an increase in our operational expenses and will likely be administratively burdensome. It is also possible that other proposals will be adopted, particularly in light of the 2008 presidential and congressional elections and the agenda of the new administration. For example, the U.S. Congress is considering a number of legislative proposals with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs. Legislative and regulatory actions under consideration in the U.S. include healthcare reform initiatives that could significantly alter the market for pharmaceuticals (such as private health insurance expansion and a variety of proposals that would reduce government expenditures for prescription drugs and/or impose industry wide fees to help finance healthcare reform). Other actions under consideration include proposals for government intervention in negotiating pharmaceutical pricing under Medicare, changes in government reimbursement, increasing rebates that pharmaceutical manufacturers pay to Medicaid, an abbreviated approval process for “follow-on” biologics, and legalization of commercial drug importation into the U.S. The enactment of any cost containment measures could result in decreased net revenues from our pharmaceutical products and decrease potential returns from our research and development efforts. The current presidential administration may be seeking to curb practices that extend the period of market exclusivity for pharmaceuticals, which may include applications for new indications or product enhancements. As a result of these and other new proposals, we may determine to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing, manufacture and sale of our products and product candidates. These risks exist even if a product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could significantly harm our business by, among other things, reducing demand for our products, injuring our reputation and creating significant adverse media attention and costly litigation. Plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based upon claims 34 Table of Contents for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our insurance policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Although we have product and clinical study liability insurance with a coverage limit of $15.0 million, this coverage may prove to be inadequate. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our current insurance coverage will continue to be available for our commercial or clinical study activities on reasonable terms, if at all. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets, including our intellectual property. In October 2009, we became aware of two lawsuits filed by individual plaintiffs in Ohio state court relating to C.B. Fleet Co., Inc., or Fleet, and claiming injuries purportedly caused by Fleet’s Phospho-soda®, sodium phosphate oral solution product. The complaints name Fleet, Santarus, the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the Research Foundation of the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons, the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons and several other individuals as defendants. The complaints allege, among other things, that the defendants fraudulently concealed, misrepresented and suppressed material medical and scientific information about Fleet’s Phospho-soda product. The plaintiffs are seeking compensatory damages, exemplary damages, damages for loss of consortium, damages under the Ohio Consumer Protection Act, and attorneys’ fees and expenses. We co-promoted Fleet’s Phospho-soda® EZ-Prep™ Bowel Cleansing System, a different sodium phosphate oral solution product manufactured by Fleet, under a co-promotion agreement, which we and Fleet entered into in August 2007 and which expired in October 2008. In November 2009, we filed notices to remove the lawsuits to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and plaintiffs filed motions to remand the actions back to Ohio state court. We expect soon to be filing motions requesting that we be dismissed from these lawsuits. Under the terms of the co-promotion agreement, we have requested that Fleet indemnify us in connection with these matters. In addition, we have tendered notice of these matters to our insurance carriers pursuant to the terms of our insurance policies. Due to the uncertainty of the ultimate outcome of these matters and our ability to maintain indemnification and/or insurance coverage, we cannot predict the effect, if any, this matter will have on our business. Regardless of how this litigation is ultimately resolved, this matter may be costly, time-consuming and distracting to our management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for our commercial products, including services related to the distribution, storage and transportation of our products. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on one third-party service provider to provide key services related to warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We place substantial reliance on this provider as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical or natural damage at their facilities, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business will suffer. We are a small company and, as of January 31, 2010, had 335 employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, manufacturing, product development, business development and sales and marketing personnel. We, as well as inVentiv, our contract sales provider, may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, due to competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and the failure to do so could have a significant negative impact on our future product revenues and business results. 35 Table of Contents Our success depends on a number of key senior management personnel, particularly Gerald T. Proehl, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, these agreements are terminable at will at any time with or without notice and, therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain their services. In addition, although we have a “key person” insurance policy on Mr. Proehl, we do not have “key person” insurance policies on any of our other employees that would compensate us for the loss of their services. If we lose the services of one or more of these individuals, replacement could be difficult and may take an extended period of time and could impede significantly the achievement of our business objectives. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately maintain such rights would materially affect our business. We regard the protection of patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights that we own or license as critical to our success and competitive position. Laws and contractual restrictions, however, may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized use or misappropriation of our technology or deter others from independently developing products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Patents Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we have licensed or will license and on patent protection for our own inventions related to the products that we market and intend to market. Our success also depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Our patent position is subject to uncertainties similar to other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. For example, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims, particularly those that concern biotechnology and pharmaceutical inventions. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products, and protection that we have and do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Other drug companies may challenge the scope, validity and enforceability of our patent claims and may be able to develop generic versions of our products if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights. For example, any failure to obtain favorable outcomes in the pending patent infringement litigations involving our Zegerid and Glumetza products, as further described below, could result in introduction of generic versions of these products prior to the patents expiring. It is also possible that other generic drug makers will attempt to introduce generic versions of our Zegerid products or the Glumetza products prior to the expiration of the applicable patents. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. Zegerid Products and Related PPI Technology We have entered into an exclusive, worldwide license agreement with the University of Missouri for patents and pending patent applications relating to specific formulations of PPIs with antacids and other buffering agents and methods of using these formulations. Currently, there are six issued U.S. patents that provide coverage for our Zegerid products (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,840,737; 6,489,346; 6,645,988; 6,699,885; 6,780,882; and 7,399,772), all of which are subject to the University of Missouri license agreement. There are also several pending U.S. patent applications relating to our Zegerid products and technology, some of which are subject to the University of Missouri license agreement and some of which we own. The issued patents generally cover pharmaceutical compositions combining PPIs with buffering agents, such as antacids, and methods of treating GI disorders by administering solid or liquid forms of such compositions, and each of the patents expires in July 2016. In addition to the U.S. patent coverage, several international patents have been issued, including in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, 36 Table of Contents Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom, all of which are subject to the University of Missouri license agreement. There are also several pending international patent applications, some of which are subject to the University of Missouri license agreement and some of which we own. The issued claims in these international patents vary between the different countries and include claims covering pharmaceutical compositions combining PPIs with buffering agents and the use of these compositions in the manufacture of drug products for the treatment of GI disorders. We consult with the University of Missouri in its pursuit of the patent applications that we have licensed, but the University of Missouri remains primarily responsible for prosecution of the applications. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources that the University of Missouri devotes on our behalf. It may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of patent applications relating to technology we license as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will ever be issued. Issued patents generally require the payment of maintenance or similar fees to continue their validity. We rely on the University of Missouri to do this, subject to our obligation to provide reimbursement, and the University’s failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not maintained. In addition, the initial U.S. patent from the University of Missouri does not have corresponding international or foreign counterpart applications and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain foreign patent rights to protect each of our products in all foreign countries of interest. In December 2007, the University of Missouri filed an Application for Reissue of U.S. Patent No. 5,840,737, or the ‘737 patent, with the PTO. The ‘737 patent is one of six issued patents listed in the Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, or the Orange Book, for Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension. The ‘737 patent is not one of the four patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid Capsules. It is not feasible to predict the impact that the reissue proceeding may have on the scope and validity of the ‘737 patent claims. If the claims of the ‘737 patent ultimately are narrowed substantially or invalidated by the PTO, the extent of the patent coverage afforded to our Zegerid family of products could be impaired, which could potentially harm our business and operating results. Glumetza Extended Release Tablets We have exclusive rights to promote the Glumetza products in the U.S. under our promotion agreement with Depomed. Currently, there are 4 issued U.S. patents that provide coverage for the Glumetza 500 mg dose product (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,340,475 (expires in September 2016); 6,635,280 (expires in September 2016); 6,488,962 (expires in June 2020); and 6,723,340 (expires in October 2021)). There is one issued U.S. patent that provides coverage for the Glumetza 1000 mg dose product (U.S. Patent No. 6,488,962 (expires in June 2020)). The issued patents generally cover various aspects of the delivery technology utilized in each of the Glumetza products. In addition, there is one pending U.S. patent application that covers the Glumetza 1000 mg dose product. We consult with Depomed concerning the patent rights relating to the Glumetza products, but Depomed remains primarily responsible for prosecution of the applications. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources that Depomed devotes to these activities. It may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of patent applications as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will ever be issued. Issued patents generally require the payment of maintenance or similar fees to continue their validity. We rely on Depomed to do this, and Depomed’s failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not maintained. In November 2009, Depomed filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Lupin Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc., collectively referred to herein as Lupin, for infringement of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Glumetza. The lawsuit is in response to an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, filed by Lupin with the FDA regarding Lupin’s intent to market generic versions of 500 mg and 1000 mg dosage strengths of Glumetza prior to the expiration of the listed patents. Depomed commenced the lawsuit within the 45 days required to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving Lupin’s ANDA for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the patents, whichever may occur earlier. Lupin has filed an answer in the case, primarily asserting non-infringement and invalidity. Lupin has also filed counterclaims seeking a declaration in its favor on those issues. 37 Table of Contents Under the terms of our promotion agreement with Depomed, Depomed is responsible for managing and paying for this litigation, subject to certain consent rights we hold related to any potential settlements or other similar types of dispositions. Although Depomed has indicated that it intends to vigorously defend and enforce its patent rights, we are not able to predict the timing or outcome of the litigation. Budesonide MMX and Rifamycin SV MMX We have exclusive rights to develop and commercialize the budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates in the U.S. under our strategic collaboration with Cosmo. Currently, there are two issued U.S. patents that provide coverage for the budesonide MMX product candidate (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,431,943 and 7,410,651), as well as one pending U.S. patent application. The issued patents cover the MMX technology generally and the MMX technology with budesonide, and each of these patents expires in June 2020. There is one issued U.S. patent that provides coverage for the rifamycin SV MMX product candidate (U.S. Patent No. 7,431,943), which expires in June 2020, and one pending U.S. patent application. The issued patent covers the MMX technology generally. We consult with Cosmo concerning the patent rights relating to the budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates, but Cosmo remains primarily responsible for prosecution of the applications. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources that Cosmo devotes to these activities. It may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of patent applications as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will ever be issued. Issued patents generally require the payment of maintenance or similar fees to continue their validity. We rely on Cosmo to do this, and Cosmo’s failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not maintained. Trade Secrets and Proprietary Know-how We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing our products. Although we require our employees, consultants, advisors and current and prospective business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements prohibiting them from disclosing or taking our proprietary information and technology, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Further, people who are not parties to confidentiality agreements may obtain access to our trade secrets or know-how. Others may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. If our confidential, proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets could be severely compromised. Trademarks Our trademarks are important to our success and competitive position. We have received U.S. and European Union, or EU, trademark registration for our corporate name, Santarus®. We also have received trademark registration in the U.S., EU, Canada and Japan for our brand name, Zegerid®, and have applied for trademark registration for various other names and logos. We have licensed to Schering-Plough the right to use various Zegerid related trademarks, including Zegerid OTC™, in connection with their licensed OTC products. Any objections we receive from the PTO, foreign trademark authorities or third parties relating to our registered trademarks and pending applications could require us to incur significant expense in defending the objections or establishing alternative names. There is no guarantee we will be able to secure any of our pending trademark applications with the PTO or comparable foreign authorities. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks would be lost or impaired. We could also be forced to cease using any of our trademarks that are found to infringe upon or otherwise violate the trademark or service mark rights of another company, and, as a result, we could lose all the goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement or violation. 38 Table of Contents The timing and any potential negative outcome in the ongoing patent litigation with Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as it could result in the introduction of generic products prior to the expiration of the patents for Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension, as well as in significant legal expenses and diversion of management time. In 2007, we filed lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par, for infringement of several of the patents listed in the Orange Book for Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,489,346; 6,645,988; 6,699,885; 6,780,882; and 7,399,772). The University of Missouri, licensor of the patents, is a co-plaintiff in the litigation, and both lawsuits have been consolidated for all purposes. The lawsuits are in response to ANDAs filed by Par with the FDA regarding Par’s intent to market generic versions of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension prior to the July 2016 expiration of the asserted patents. A bench trial for the consolidated lawsuit was held in July 2009. During the trial, the court ruled in favor of Santarus and the University of Missouri on the issue of infringement. Post-trial briefs were submitted in August 2009, and the court has not yet ruled on Par’s defenses of invalidity and inequitable conduct. We and the University of Missouri filed each of the original lawsuits against Par within the time period necessary to automatically stay, or bar, the FDA from approving Par’s ANDAs for 30 months or until a district court decision that is adverse to the patents, whichever may occur earlier. The 30-month stay applicable to Zegerid Capsules expired on or about February 3, 2010, and the 30-month stay applicable to Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension expires in May/June 2010. In light of the expiration of the 30-month stay for Zegerid Capsules, we requested in January 2010 that the court enjoin Par from launching its product until the court issues its ruling. The court subsequently requested that we and Par attempt to negotiate the terms of the injunction and report back to the court on our progress. Those discussions are ongoing. Although we intend to vigorously defend and enforce our patent rights, we are not able to predict the timing or outcome of the injunction proceedings or the overall litigation. Any adverse outcome in this litigation could result in one or more generic versions of Zegerid Capsules and/or Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension being launched before the expiration of the listed patents in July 2016, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business strategy to increase sales of Zegerid Capsules and Zegerid Powder for Oral Suspension and would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. An adverse outcome may also impact the patent protection for the products being commercialized pursuant to our strategic alliances with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine, which in turn may impact the amount of, or our ability to receive, milestone payments and royalties under our agreements with these strategic partners. Following any decision from the lower court, the losing party may choose to exercise its right to appeal, which could result in a change of the lower court’s decision as well as additional time and expense. Regardless of how the litigation is ultimately resolved, the litigation has been and may continue to be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Third parties may choose to file patent infringement claims against us, which litigation would be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could be materially adverse to our business. The products we currently market, and those we may market in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in the U.S. or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. 39 Table of Contents If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to manufacture, market and sell our products, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease manufacturing and marketing the challenged products, or, if possible, to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. If we or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers are unsuccessful in defending our rights, we could be liable for royalties on past sales or more significant damages, and we could be required to obtain and pay for licenses if we are to continue to manufacture and sell our products. These licenses may not be available and, if available, could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments. Any patent owner may seek preliminary injunctive relief in connection with an infringement claim, as well as a permanent injunction, and, if successful in the claim, may be entitled to lost profits from infringing sales, attorneys’ fees and interest and other amounts. Any damages could be increased if there is a finding of willful infringement. Even if we and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay and burden on management of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Zegerid products depend on technology licensed from the University of Missouri and any loss of our license rights would harm our business and seriously affect our ability to market our products. Our Zegerid products are based on patented technology and technology for which patent applications are pending that we have exclusively licensed from the University of Missouri. A loss or adverse modification of our technology license from the University of Missouri would materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current Zegerid products and other products based on that licensed technology that we may attempt to develop or commercialize in the future. The University of Missouri may claim that new patents or new patent applications that result from new research performed by the University of Missouri are not part of the licensed technology. The licenses from the University of Missouri expire in each country when the last patent for licensed technology expires in that country and the last patent application for licensed technology in that country is abandoned. In addition, our rights under the University of Missouri license are subject to early termination under specified circumstances, including our material and uncured breach of the license agreement or our bankruptcy or insolvency. Further, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and sell products based on the technology we licensed from the University of Missouri to meet market demand. If we fail to meet these obligations in specified countries, after giving us an opportunity to cure the failure, the University of Missouri can terminate our license or render it nonexclusive with respect to those countries. To date, we believe we have met all of our obligations under the University of Missouri agreement. However, in the event that the University of Missouri is able to terminate the license agreement for one of the reasons specified in the license agreement, we would lose our rights to develop, market and sell our current Zegerid products and we would not be able to develop, market and sell future products based on those licensed technologies. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We may incur operating losses in the future and may not be able to sustain profitability. The extent of our future operating losses and our ability to sustain profitability are highly uncertain. We have been engaged in developing and commercializing drugs and have generated significant operating losses since our inception in December 1996. Our commercial activities and continued product development and clinical activities will require significant expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $172.5 million in total revenues, and, as of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $290.4 million. We may incur additional operating losses and capital expenditures as we support the continued marketing of the Zegerid and Glumetza products and any other products we commercialize, and continue our product development and clinical research programs. In addition, the outcomes in the pending patent infringement lawsuits relating to our Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products could also impact our ability to sustain profitability. Any adverse outcomes in the pending patent infringement litigations would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, including causing a significant decrease in our revenues and cash flows. 40 Table of Contents Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly due to uncertainties about future sales levels for our currently marketed products and future costs associated with our development-stage products. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period, particularly because the commercial success of, and demand for, currently marketed products, as well as the success and costs of our development programs are uncertain and therefore our future prospects are uncertain. The level of our revenues, if any, and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • commercial success of the Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products; • the outcomes of the pending patent infringement lawsuits relating to our Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products; • results of clinical studies and other development programs, including the ongoing and planned clinical studies for the budesonide MMX and rifamycin SV MMX product candidates; • progress under the strategic alliances with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval for any future products we develop or in-license; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of our products; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us, our strategic partners or our competitors; • legislative changes, including healthcare reform, affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. To the extent we need to raise additional funds in connection with the licensing or acquisition of new products or to continue our operations, we may be unable to raise capital when needed. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our current operations for at least the next 12 months; however, our projected revenue may decrease or our expenses may increase and that would lead to our cash resources being consumed earlier than we expect. Although we do not believe that we will need to raise additional funds to finance our current operations over the next 12 months, we may pursue raising additional funds in connection with licensing or acquisition of new products. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through equity, debt and/or royalty financing, or through strategic collaborations or licensing agreements. In November 2008, we filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, which was declared effective in December 2008. The universal shelf registration statement replaced our previous universal shelf registration statement that expired in December 2008. The universal shelf registration statement may permit us, from time to time, to offer and sell up to approximately $75.0 million of equity or debt securities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any such offerings of securities. Factors influencing the availability of additional financing include the progress of our commercial and development activities, investor perception of our prospects and the general condition of the financial markets, among others. In July 2006, we entered into a loan agreement with Comerica Bank, or Comerica, which we subsequently amended in July 2008, pursuant to which we may request advances in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $25.0 million. Amounts borrowed under the loan agreement may be repaid and re-borrowed at any time prior to July 11, 2011. In December 2008, we borrowed $10.0 million under the loan agreement. Our ability to borrow additional amounts under the loan agreement depends upon a number of conditions and restrictions, and we cannot be certain that we will satisfy all borrowing conditions at a time when we desire to borrow such amounts under the loan agreement. For example, we have made comprehensive representations and warranties to Comerica as our lender, and all of these representations and warranties generally must be true and correct at the time of any proposed 41 Table of Contents borrowing. Furthermore, we are subject to a number of affirmative and negative covenants, each of which must be satisfied at the time of any proposed borrowing. If we have not satisfied these various conditions, or an event of default otherwise has occurred, we may be unable to borrow additional amounts under the loan agreement, and may be required to repay any amounts previously borrowed. In addition, given the current financial market conditions, our continued ability to borrow under the loan agreement may be dependent on the financial solvency of banks in general, including Comerica. We cannot be certain that our existing cash and marketable securities resources will be adequate to sustain our current operations. To the extent we require additional funding, we cannot be certain that such funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on terms acceptable to us at that time, our ability to continue our current operations or pursue new product opportunities would be significantly limited. Our current and any future indebtedness under our loan agreement with Comerica could adversely affect our financial health. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we may incur a significant amount of indebtedness. Such indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy other debt obligations we may incur in the future; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because our indebtedness under the loan agreement with Comerica bears interest at a variable rate. For a description of the loan agreement, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources. Covenants in our loan agreement with Comerica may limit our ability to operate our business. Under our loan agreement with Comerica, we are subject to specified affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability: to undergo certain change of control events; to convey, sell, lease, license, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; to create, incur, assume, guarantee or be liable with respect to certain indebtedness; to grant liens; to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments; and to make investments. In addition, under the loan agreement we are required to maintain a balance of cash with Comerica in an amount of not less than $4.0 million and to maintain any other cash balances with either Comerica or another financial institution covered by a control agreement for the benefit of Comerica. We are also subject to specified financial covenants with respect to a minimum liquidity ratio and, in specified limited circumstances, minimum EBITDA requirements, as defined in the loan agreement. 42 Table of Contents If we default under the loan agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable, which would negatively impact our liquidity and reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset taxes that would otherwise be due could be limited or lost entirely if we do not continue to generate taxable income in a timely manner or if we trigger an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code which, if we continue to generate taxable income, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had Federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $161.1 million and $142.8 million, respectively. Our ability to use our NOLs to offset taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs, and we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be able to generate future taxable income. In addition, even if we generate taxable income, realization of our NOLs to offset taxes that would otherwise be due could be restricted by annual limitations on use of NOLs triggered by an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. An “ownership change” may occur when there is a 50% or greater change in total ownership of our company by one or more 5% shareholders within a three-year period. The loss of some or all of our NOLs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years, and other states may consider similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline. In addition, we maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at one or more financial institutions that are in excess of federally insured limits. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. In addition, concern about the stability of markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, our short-term investments included AAA-rated auction rate securities, or ARS, issued by state municipalities. Our ARS are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and an interest rate that is reset in short-term intervals through auctions. The conditions in the global credit markets have prevented many investors from liquidating their holdings of ARS because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If there is insufficient demand for the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the interest rates may be reset to predetermined higher rates. When auctions for these securities fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful or they are redeemed or mature. 43 Table of Contents Due to conditions in the global credit markets, our ARS, representing a par value of approximately $3.9 million, had insufficient demand resulting in multiple failed auctions since early 2008. As a result, these affected securities are currently not liquid. In October 2008, we received an offer of Auction Rate Securities Rights, or ARS Rights, from our investment provider, UBS Financial Services, Inc., a subsidiary of UBS AG, or UBS. In November 2008, we accepted the ARS Rights offer. The ARS Rights permit us to require UBS to purchase our ARS at par value at any time during the period of June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. If we do not exercise our ARS Rights, the ARS will continue to accrue interest as determined by the auction process or, if the auction fails, by the terms of the ARS. If the ARS Rights are not exercised before July 2, 2012 they will expire and UBS will have no further obligation to buy our ARS. UBS has the discretion to purchase or sell our ARS at any time without prior notice so long as we receive a payment at par upon any sale or disposition. UBS has agreed to exercise its discretion to purchase or sell our ARS only for the purpose of restructurings, dispositions or other solutions that will provide us with par value for our ARS. As a condition to accepting the offer of ARS Rights, we released UBS from all claims except claims for consequential damages relating to its marketing and sales of ARS. We also agreed not to serve as a class representative or receive benefits under any class action settlement or investor fund. We intend to exercise the ARS Rights within the next 12 months. In the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be able to do so without the likely loss of principal, until a future auction for these investments is successful or they are redeemed by the issuer or they mature. If we are unable to sell these securities in the market or they are not redeemed, then we may be required to hold them to maturity. In connection with the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, we are required to make estimates and judgments which involve uncertainties, and any significant differences between our estimates and actual results could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. In particular, as part of our revenue recognition policy, our estimates of product returns, rebates and chargebacks require our most subjective and complex judgment due to the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Any significant differences between our actual results and our estimates under different assumptions or conditions could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and our stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at attractive prices. The market prices for securities of specialty biopharmaceutical companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the trading prices for our common stock ranged from a high of $5.82 to a low of $1.05. In addition, we have not paid cash dividends since our inception and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our loan agreement with Comerica prohibits us from paying dividends. Therefore, investors will have to rely on appreciation in our stock price and a liquid trading market in order to achieve a gain on their investment. The trading price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially as a result of one or more of the following factors: • announcements concerning our commercial progress and activities, including sales and revenue trends; • the outcomes of the pending patent infringement lawsuits relating to our Zegerid and Glumetza prescription products; 44 Table of Contents • announcements concerning our product development programs, results of our clinical studies or status of our regulatory submissions; • regulatory developments and related announcements in the U.S., including announcements by the FDA, and foreign countries; • developments, including progress or delays, pursuant to our strategic alliances with GSK, Schering-Plough and Norgine; • other disputes or developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and trade secrets, litigation matters, and our ability to patent or otherwise protect our products and technologies; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • changes in, or our failure to meet or exceed, investors’ and securities analysts’ expectations; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors’ quarterly or annual operating results; • announcements concerning borrowings under our loan agreement, takedowns under our existing universal shelf registration statement or other developments relating to the loan agreement, universal shelf registration statement or our other financing activities; • our entering into licenses, strategic partnerships and similar arrangements, or the termination of such arrangements; • acquisition of products or businesses by us or our competitors; • announcements made by, or events affecting, our strategic partners, our contract sales force provider, our suppliers or other third parties that provide services to us; • litigation and government inquiries; or • economic and political factors, including healthcare reform, wars, terrorism and political unrest. Our stock price could decline and our stockholders may suffer dilution in connection with future issuances of equity or debt securities. Although we do not believe that we will need to raise additional funds to finance our current operations over the next 12 months, we may pursue raising additional funds in connection with licensing or acquisition of new products. Sources of additional funds may include funds generated through equity, debt and/or royalty financing, or through strategic collaborations or licensing agreements. To the extent we conduct substantial future offerings of equity or debt securities, such offerings could cause our stock price to decline. For example, we may issue securities under our existing universal shelf registration statement or we may pursue alternative financing arrangements. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and future equity issuances, including future public offerings or future private placements of equity securities and any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, will also result in dilution to investors. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of resales of any of these shares of common stock due to an increased number of shares available for sale in the market. 45 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders may depress our stock price. A concentrated number of stockholders hold significant blocks of our outstanding common stock. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. For example, sales by Cosmo of any shares that we have issued or may issue to it in connection with our strategic collaboration (following expiration of the applicable lock-up period), or the expectation that sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, the holders of a substantial number of shares of common stock may have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Moreover, certain of our executive officers have from time to time established programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the purpose of effecting sales of common stock, and other employees and affiliates, including our directors and executive officers, may choose to establish similar plans in the future. If any of our stockholders cause securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. We may become involved in securities or other class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. In addition, over the last few years, several class action lawsuits have been filed against pharmaceutical companies alleging that the companies’ sales representatives have been misclassified as exempt employees under the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state laws and there have not yet been final decisions at the appellate level. We cannot be certain as to how the lawsuits will ultimately be resolved. Although we have not been the subject of these types of lawsuits, we may be targeted in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could adversely affect our stock price and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • permitting the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 46 Table of Contents In addition, in November 2004, we adopted a stockholder rights plan, which was subsequently amended in April 2006 and December 2008. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board prior to attempting a takeover by potentially significantly diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 