Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact our business. You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, and the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. The process of consummating the Going Private Transaction or any other transaction, as well as the failure to successfully consummate such a transaction, could adversely affect our business. The process of consummating the Going Private Transaction or any other transaction resulting from the processes conducted by the legal and financial advisors to the Special Committee of our board could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to whether the Going Private Transaction or any alternative transaction will be completed may cause current and prospective employees and members of management to become uncertain about their future roles with the Company if the transaction is completed. This uncertainty could adversely affect our ability to retain employees, members of management, and our relationships with customers and vendors. In addition, despite the fact that a Special Committee has been formed to manage and oversee any transaction and the Special Committee is being advised by outside professionals, the attention of management and other resources may be directed toward a potential transaction and diverted from day-to-day operations. Further, the costs associated with these processes are expected to be considerable, regardless of whether any transaction is approved or consummated. There is no assurance that the Going Private Transaction or any other transaction will occur. If the Going Private Transaction or any other transaction is not completed, the share price of our Common Stock may change to the extent that the current market price of our Common Stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. Finally, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to litigation related to the Going Private Transaction, which could affect our ability to consummate a transaction, force us to rescind a transaction if it is consummated before the conclusion of the litigation or otherwise adversely affect our business or stock price. As previously disclosed in Current Reports on Form 8-K, our recently filed proxy statement for a special meeting of our stockholders and Item 3 of this Annual Report, two complaints have been filed relating to the Going Private Transaction. The defendants in these lawsuits include among combinations of the Company, the members of the Company’s board, Troy Lowrie, the Company’s Chairman and CEO, Micheal Ocello, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, and certain entities involved in the Going Private Transaction. Among other things, the complaints seek to enjoin the Company, its directors, and certain of its officers from consummating the proposed Going Private Transaction. Additional lawsuits pertaining to the Going Private Transaction could be filed in the future or the existing lawsuits could affect the proposed Going Private Transaction. Although the state and federal court lawsuits challenging the Going Private Transaction have been settled by the parties to these lawsuits (as more fully described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”), there is no assurance that the court will approve the settlement and permit the dismissal of these lawsuits. In such event, the Company could be required to incur significant additional costs and expenses, as well as the diversion of the attention of the Company’s management and other resources, as a result of these lawsuits. Further, the Company could be prohibited from consummating the Going Private Transaction or, once it has been consummated, the Company could be forced to rescind it. The Company could also be required to pay damages to the plaintiffs if the settlement is not approved by the court and the Company is not successful in defending these lawsuits. 8 Table of Contents Anyone buying shares of our Common Stock for more than $2.25 per share is unlikely to receive more than $2.25 per share for such stock for as long as the merger agreement remains in effect. The merger agreement provides that upon consummation of the Going Private Transaction, each share of our Common Stock (except for shares owned by us, Messrs. Lowrie and Ocello, certain of their affiliates, and stockholders that are eligible to and elect to invoke dissenters’ rights), will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $2.25 in cash, without interest (and less applicable withholding taxes). It is likely that the Going Private Transaction consideration will act as a cap on the market price of our Common Stock until the Going Private Transaction is consummated or the merger agreement terminated. Therefore, it is unlikely that anyone selling shares of our Common Stock before consummation of the Going Private Transaction will receive more than $2.25 per share. We have had limited operations which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. Our Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Colorado in 1998, but did not begin its operations until April 2002. The Company, through its subsidiaries, currently owns (in total or in partnerships) and operates 19 adult nightclubs that offer quality live adult entertainment, restaurant, and bar operations. We have a limited operating history and face the risk and uncertainties of other early-stage companies. Because of our limited operating history, we may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our services would decrease our revenues and could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. To the extent that expenses precede, or are not rapidly followed by, increased revenue, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our inability to obtain capital, use internally generated cash, or use our securities or debt to finance future expansion efforts could impair the growth and expansion of our business. Reliance on internally generated cash or debt to finance our operations or complete business expansion efforts could substantially limit our operational and financial flexibility. The extent to which we will be able or willing to issue securities to consummate expansions will depend on the market value of our securities from time to time and the willingness of potential investors, sellers, or business partners to accept it as full or partial payment. Using securities for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our then existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use securities to make future expansions, our ability to grow through expansions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital for this purpose through debt or equity financings. Raising external capital in the form of debt could require periodic interest payments that could hinder our financial flexibility in the future. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance a successful expansion program or our other cash needs. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of any expansion. In addition to requiring funding for expansions, we may need additional funds to implement our internal growth and operating strategies or to finance other aspects of our operations. Our failure to (a) obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, (b) use internally generated cash or debt to complete expansions because it significantly limits our operational or financial flexibility, or (c) use securities to make future expansions may hinder our ability to actively pursue any expansion program we may decide to implement. In addition, if we are unable to obtain necessary capital going forward, our ability to continue as a going concern would be negatively impacted. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher costs of obtaining credit. Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do so. Disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. We often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance acquisitions of additional nightclubs. Additional nightclub acquisitions are also financed by promissory notes carried by the sellers and debt financed by company investors and related parties. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability and prevent or hamper our growth through acquisitions. 9 Table of Contents Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economic conditions generally. In the past 36 months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. The ongoing financial crisis and the loss of confidence in the stock market has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. Increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity could have a negative impact on our earnings and our ability to acquire additional nightclubs. In addition, the deteriorating general economic conditions in the United States has caused a drop in consumer spending in general, and discretionary spending in particular. This has caused a decline in the number of patrons at our nightclubs and the amount of money spent by them. Further, our nightclubs located in geographical areas suffering from proportionally worse economic conditions when compared to the United States in general have experienced larger declines in operating revenues. Overall, the economic environment during our 2010 fiscal year has been slightly adverse for our business compared to the previous year and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be slightly adversely affected. Our nightclubs were acquired with a purchase price based on historical EBITDA. This results in each nightclub carrying a substantial amount of intangible value, mostly allocated to licenses and goodwill. Generally accepted accounting principles require an annual impairment review of these indefinite lived assets. In performing the Company’s annual impairment assessment at December 31, 2010 in accordance with ASC Topic 350, the Company determined that no impairment had occurred. If difficult market and economic conditions continue in 2011 and/or we experience a decrease in revenue at one or more nightclubs, we could incur a decline in fair value of one or more of our nightclubs. This could result in a future impairment charge of up to the total value of the indefinite lived intangible assets. Our acquisitions may result in disruptions in our business and diversion of management’s attention. We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of complementary nightclubs, restaurants, or related operations. Any acquisitions will require the integration of the operations, products, and personnel of the acquired businesses and the training and motivation of these individuals. Such acquisitions may disrupt our operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with current employees, customers, and partners. We may also incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. These issuances could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization, or impairment costs for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. If management is unable to fully integrate acquired business, products, or persons with existing operations, we may not receive the benefits of the acquisitions, and our revenues and stock trading price may decrease. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration. One part of our growth strategy is nightclub “clustering.” Adult nightclubs tend to group together in their respective markets. We believe that clustering leads to improved brand recognition as well as some improvement in economics of scale as costs of marketing are spread over more nightclubs. Clustering also provides the Company with the ability to disperse management expertise to more locations under their responsibility. We are subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration in areas in which we own and operate multiple nightclubs, such as adverse changes in the local economy, the local regulatory environment, and our local reputation. If we are unable to successfully diminish the impact of these risks, our profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our business operations are subject to regulatory uncertainties which may affect our ability to acquire additional nightclubs, remain in operation or be profitable. Our business is regulated by constantly changing zoning, local and state liquor licensing, local ordinances, and state and federal time, place and manner free speech restrictions. In states in which we currently operate, liquor licenses renew annually and are considered to be “privileged” licenses that could be subject to suspension or revocation. The adult entertainment provided by our nightclubs has elements of free speech and expression and, therefore, has some protection under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. However, the protection is limited to the expression of our entertainers and not their conduct. 10 Table of Contents In all states where we operate, management believes that we comply with applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances governing the sale of alcohol and the operation of sexually oriented businesses. However, changes in these laws, regulations, and ordinances may increase our cost of compliance therewith, or cause us to be unable to renew them, thereby reducing our profitability or preventing our nightclubs to remain in operation. There can be no assurance that local, state and/or federal licensing, and other regulations will permit our nightclubs to remain in operation or profitable in the future. Further, if we are involved in costly administrative or legal proceedings to renew our licenses or defend against claims involving non-protected free speech, it may result in negative publicity and decreased profitability. Beginning January 1, 2008, our Texas nightclub became subject to a new state law requiring each nightclub to collect a five dollar surcharge for every nightclub visitor. We have filed a tax protest suit against this “patron tax,” and the suit has been stayed by agreement until the Texas Supreme Court resolves the underlying case. This trend is spreading to other states to enact similar surcharges or admission fee taxes. Currently, the Company is not passing this surcharge on to our customers and we are absorbing this expense. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if this surcharge continues in Texas and spreads to other states in which the Company operates. There is substantial competition in the nightclub entertainment industry, which may affect our ability to operate profitably or acquire additional nightclubs. Our ability to increase or sustain revenues is impacted by our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, both for nightclub acquisitions and patrons. Our ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include the quality and appeal of our competitors’ nightclubs relative to our offerings, the strength of our competitors’ brands, the effectiveness of our competitors’ sales, marketing efforts and the attractiveness of their product offerings, and general consumer behaviors and preferences regarding how they choose to spend their discretionary income. Further, our competitors may have significantly greater financial and management resources than our Company. In addition, the industry is especially sensitive to ever-changing and unpredictable competitive trends and competition for general entertainment dollars which cannot be easily predicted and which are beyond our control. If we are unable to compete effectively in the market, we may be unable to attract patrons to our existing nightclubs or complete acquisitions of new nightclubs, which may prevent us from sustaining or increasing our revenues or growing our business. If we are unable to effectively promote our brands and establish a leading position in the marketplace, our business may fail. We believe that we may attract more patrons to our nightclubs and distinguish ourselves from our competition by increasing the awareness of our brands and that the importance of brand recognition will increase over time. In order to gain brand recognition, we believe that we must increase our marketing and advertising budgets to create and maintain brand name loyalty through the promotion and development of our affiliation with the PT’s®, Diamond Cabaret®, and Penthouse® names. We do not know whether these efforts will lead to greater brand recognition. If we are unable to effectively promote our brand and establish a leading position in the marketplace, we may be unable to attract patrons or new nightclubs for acquisitions, which may prevent us from sustaining or increasing our revenues or growing our business. Our failure to protect our brands may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our brands or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We believe that it is important for our business to achieve brand recognition. We rely primarily on trademarks and trade names to achieve this. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot give assurance that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. Our business is dependent upon management and employees for continuing operations and expansion. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts and abilities of Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, and Micheal Ocello, our President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of Messrs. Lowrie and/or Ocello or our inability to recruit and train additional key personnel in a timely fashion could have a material and continuing adverse effect on our business and future prospects. A loss of one or more of our current officers or key personnel could severely and negatively impact our operations. Messrs. Lowrie and Ocello have limited experience managing a public company subject to the SEC’s periodic reporting obligations. 11 Table of Contents Hiring qualified management is difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals in the industry in which we operate. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining additional members of management if our business continues to grow. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly management personnel, would continue to materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, may have potential conflicts of interest with the Company, which may adversely affect our business. He beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our Common Stock, which will have an impact on all major decisions on which our stockholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of our Company. We have engaged in several transactions with Lowrie Management LLLP, which is controlled and majority owned by Troy Lowrie, who is a significant stockholder, and our Chairman of the Board and CEO. Additionally, Mr. Lowrie and Lowrie Management LLLP are parties to the Going Private Transaction and will become indirect owners of the Company, if and when the Going Private Transaction closes. Conflicts of interest may arise between Mr. Lowrie’s duties to our Company and his duties to Lowrie Management LLLP, or his interest as an owner of Lowrie Management LLLP or as a potential acquirer of the Company’s Common Stock in the Going Private Transaction. Because Mr. Lowrie is a director and the CEO of our Company, he has a duty of loyalty and care to us under Colorado law when there are any potential conflicts of interest between our Company and Lowrie Management LLLP. We cannot give you assurance that when conflicts of interest arise, Mr. Lowrie will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Mr. Lowrie could violate his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between Mr. Lowrie and us, we would have to rely on legal proceedings which could disrupt our business. Several of our landlords and lenders have required Mr. Lowrie’s continued management role with our Company in order to avoid a default or acceleration of our obligations under certain of our leases or loan agreements. As of March 29, 2011, Mr. Lowrie beneficially owns approximately 30.3% of our issued and outstanding Common Stock. In addition, he is our Chairman of the Board and CEO. The interests of Mr. Lowrie may differ from the interests of other stockholders. Because of his significant ownership of our Common Stock, Mr. Lowrie will have the ability to significantly influence virtually all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the following actions: • election of our directors; • amendment of our organizational documents; • the Going Private Transaction or the sale of our assets or other corporate transaction; and • control of the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Mr. Lowrie’s beneficial stock ownership may discourage potential investors from investing in shares of our Common Stock due to the lack of influence they could have on our business decisions, which in turn could reduce our stock price. We must comply with all licenses and permits relating to the sale of alcohol. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of alcoholic beverages. States in which we operate may have laws which may limit the availability of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages or which may provide for suspension or revocation of a permit to sell alcoholic beverages in certain circumstances. The temporary or permanent suspension or revocations of any such permits would have a material adverse effect on the revenues, financial condition, and results of operations of the Company. In all states where we operate, management believes that we comply with applicable city, county, state, or other local laws governing the sale of alcohol. Activities or conduct at our nightclubs may cause us to lose necessary business licenses, expose us to liability, or result in adverse publicity, which may increase our costs, divert management’s attention from our business, and cause our stockholders to lose confidence in us, thereby lowering our profitability and our stock price. We are subject to risks associated with activities or conduct at our nightclubs that are illegal or violate the terms of necessary business licenses. Our nightclubs operate under licenses for sexually oriented businesses and some protection under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. While we believe that the activities at our nightclubs comply with the terms of such licenses, and that the element of our business that constitutes an expression of free speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is protected, activities and conduct at our nightclubs may be found to violate the terms of such licenses or be unprotected under the U.S. Constitution. This protection is limited to the expression and not the conduct of an entertainer. An issuing authority may suspend or terminate a license for a nightclub found to have violated the license terms. Illegal activities or conduct at any of our nightclubs may result in negative publicity or litigation. Such consequences may increase our cost of doing business, divert management’s attention from our business, and make an investment in our securities unattractive to current and potential investors, thereby lowering our profitability and our stock price. 12 Table of Contents IEC has developed comprehensive policies aimed at ensuring that the operation of each nightclub is conducted in conformance with local, state and federal laws. We have a “no tolerance” policy on illegal drug use in or around the facilities. We continually monitor the actions of entertainers, waitresses, and customers to ensure that proper behavior standards are met. However, such policies, no matter how well designed and enforced, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the policies’ objectives are being achieved. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems and policies, there can be no assurance that our policies will prevent deliberate acts by persons attempting to violate or circumvent them. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, management believes that our policies are reasonably effective in achieving their purposes. Our industry is viewed negatively by many for moral, religious, women’s rights, and other reasons, therefore, the market for our securities is smaller than for other securities and an investor may find it hard to sell our securities. We operate in an industry that is viewed negatively by many. People may object to sexually oriented entertainment for moral, religious, women’s rights, or other reasons. As a result, we are exposed to risks associated with societal attitudes towards our business, both locally and nationally. Local attitudes may disproportionally affect our nightclubs in areas in which we are operating while national attitudes may affect our business generally or our stock price specifically. Because of the negative perception of our industry, the market for our securities is smaller than for securities without such negative perception. Therefore, an investor in our securities may be unable to sell our securities at an acceptable time and price, or at all. Our business plan and proposed strategy have not been independently evaluated. We have not obtained any independent evaluation of our business plan and proposed business strategy. There can be no assurance that our nightclubs or proposed strategy will generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. We may be subject to uninsured risks which, if realized, could expose us to money damages, which we may be unable to pay. We maintain insurance in amounts we consider adequate for personal injury and property damage to which our nightclubs may be subject. We also currently have personal injury liquor liability coverage in place. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be exposed to potential liabilities for money damages in excess of the coverage provided by insurance, including, but not limited to, liabilities which may be imposed pursuant to state “dram shop” statutes or common law theories of liability. In general, “dram shop” statutes provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person has the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person if it was apparent to the server that the individual being sold, served, or provided with an alcoholic beverage was obviously intoxicated to the extent that he presented a clear danger to himself and others. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient to pay for any money damages that we may be found liable for, we will have to pay such excess damages using the funds needed for operation of our business, if available, thereby increasing our costs and reducing our profitability. Our directors and officers have limited liability and are entitled to indemnification that could encourage derivative lawsuits and require us to direct funds away from our business. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that our directors shall not be liable to the Company or our stockholders for monetary damages for breaches of fiduciary duties as a director to the fullest extent permitted by Colorado law. Further, we are obligated to indemnify and advance expenses to our directors and executive officers in certain circumstances. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that the Company shall indemnify and advance expenses to a director or officer in connection with a proceeding to the fullest extent permitted or required by and in accordance with Colorado law. We have also entered into separate, but substantively identical, indemnification agreements with all of our directors and named executive officers. The indemnification agreements provide that the Company will indemnify each director and executive officer against claims arising out of events or occurrences related to such individual’s service on the Company’s board or as an executive officer, as applicable, (i) when such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, or (ii) after a determination has been made that such indemnification is permissible. Pursuant to these arrangements, we may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director and to pay judgments, fines, and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors may become involved by reason of being or having been an officer or director of our Company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines, and expenses may be funds we need for the operation of our business, thereby affecting our ability to maintain profitability. 13 Table of Contents These provisions in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and the stand-alone indemnification agreements may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and executive officers, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors and executive officers even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited our stockholders. We also note that our directors and Troy Lowrie, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and CEO, are currently defendants in one or more lawsuits in connection with the Going Private Transaction, as further discussed in another risk factor and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may be required to advance expenses to and indemnify the directors and Mr. Lowrie from expenses involved in defending against such lawsuits. Any amount we are required to pay or advance to a director or executive officer pursuant to these provisions will be diverted from the Company’s operating capital and will have an adverse effect on the Company’s cash flow and results of operation. While the Company has obtained directors’ and officers’ insurance to protect against this occurrence, there can be no assurance that our directors’ and officers’ insurance will cover a claim made for indemnification or be sufficient to cover the entire amount claimed for indemnification. We have been informed that the SEC has the opinion that indemnification of liabilities to executive officers or directors under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), to be against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and therefore are unenforceable. We could use the issuance of additional shares of our authorized stock to deter a change in control. As of March 29, 2011, we have 16,292,071 shares of Common Stock outstanding, out of a total of 50,000,000 shares of Common Stock authorized, and zero shares of Series A preferred stock, out of a total of 1,000,000 shares authorized for future issuance under our Articles of Incorporation. This does not include 224 shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under our 2002 Stock Option and Stock Bonus Plan, 2,708 shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under our 2003 Stock Option and Stock Bonus Plan, and 906,667 shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under our 2004 Stock Option and Appreciation Rights Plan. In addition, our board is authorized to issue “blank check” preferred stock, with designations, rights, and preferences as they may determine. Accordingly, our board may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting, or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Common Stock. This type of preferred stock could also be issued to discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our control. The ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock is a traditional anti-takeover measure. These provisions in our charter documents make it difficult for a majority stockholder to gain control of the board and of our Company. The issuance of additional shares would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if its doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have employment agreements with Troy Lowrie and Micheal Ocello that contain features that may discourage a change of control. On December 4, 2008, we entered into five-year employment agreements with Troy Lowrie, our Chairman of the Board and CEO, and Micheal Ocello, one of our directors and our President and Chief Operating Officer. Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements, if we terminate either of them other than for “cause,” “death,” or “disability” (as such terms are defined therein), or either of them terminates his employment for “good reason” (as such term is defined therein, which term includes termination of the officer following a change of control), we must pay the officer a severance payment equal to three times the sum of the officer’s base salary in effect upon termination plus an amount equal to the highest bonus the officer received in the three years before termination, if any. Further, the employment agreements provide that if such an officer’s employment is terminated for any reason, we must, at the officer’s election, promptly pay all outstanding debt owed to the officer and his family or issue to the officer, with his approval, the number of shares of our Common Stock determined by dividing (a) the outstanding principal and interest owed to the officer (b) 50% of the last sale price of our Common Stock on the date of termination. Finally, Mr. Lowrie’s employment agreement provides that if Mr. Lowrie’s employment is terminated for any reason, we must also take all necessary steps to remove Mr. Lowrie as a guarantor of any of our (or our affiliates’) obligations to any third party. In the event that we are not successful in doing so, we must pay to Mr. Lowrie a cash amount equal to five percent per year of the aggregate amount he is continuously guaranteeing until such time when Mr. Lowrie no longer guarantees the obligations. A change of control may trigger the payments set forth above and the resulting costs may prevent or deter a potential acquirer from buying the Company. Even if doing so could be beneficial to our stockholders. 14 Table of Contents We must meet the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting, which may decrease our stock price and make it harder for our stockholders to trade our stock. Our Common Stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. We must continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements or risk delisting of our securities. That would likely have an adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock and our business. There can be no assurance that the Company will meet the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market, or that the Company’s Common Stock will not be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market in the future. If our Common Stock is delisted from NASDAQ, it may trade on the over-the-counter market, which may be a less liquid market. In such case, our stockholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, shares of our Common Stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. In the event the make-up of our Board or Audit Committee were not, or are not in the future, in compliance with the SEC and NASDAQ independence requirements, we face a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our stockholders and our business. The SEC rules and the NASDAQ Global Stock Market’s continued listing requirements require, among other things, that a majority of the members of our board are independent and that our audit committee consists entirely of independent directors. We know that we currently comply with the SEC and NASDAQ requirements regarding director independence. However, in the event that we do not remain in compliance with these requirements, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without the requisite independent review and approval. This could present the potential for a conflict of interest between us and our stockholders generally and our executive officers, stockholders, or directors. Further, our failure to comply with these requirements may limit the quality of the decisions that are made by our board and audit committee, such that the risk of material misstatements or omissions caused by errors or fraud with respect to our financial statements or other disclosures that may occur and not be detected in a timely manner or at all; or the payment of inappropriate levels of compensation to our executive officers. In the event there are deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls, we may misreport our financial results or lose significant amounts due to misstatements caused by errors or fraud. Finally, if the composition of our board or audit committee fails to meet NASDAQ’s independence requirements in the future and we fail to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, the Company’s Common Stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, as further described in the previous risk factor. The Company is currently non-compliant with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5605(c)(2)(A), which requires listed Companies have at least three audit committee members. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our Common Stock, and this may have a negative impact on our Common Stock’s market price. The trading market for our Common Stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. Currently, we have no analyst firm covering the Company. If securities analysts do not cover our Common Stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If the analyst ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In the past, we have raised substantial amounts of capital in private placements, and if we fail to comply with the applicable securities laws, ensuing rescission rights or lawsuits would severely damage our financial position. Our 2004 private placement consisted of securities that were not registered under the Securities Act, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or under any state “blue sky” law as a result of exemptions from such registration requirements. Such exemptions are highly technical in nature and if we inadvertently failed to comply with any of such exemptive provisions, investors could have the right to rescind their purchase of our securities and sue for damages. If any investors were to successfully seek such rescission or prevail in any such suit, we could face severe financial demands that could have significant, adverse affects on our financial position. Future financings may involve sales of our Common Stock at prices below prevailing market prices, as well as the issuance of warrants or convertible securities at a discount to market price. 15 Table of Contents The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and increase the transaction costs to sell those shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” as an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. Because the last reported trade of our company stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was at a price below $5.00 per share, our Common Stock is currently considered a penny stock. The SEC’s penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and the salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that before a transaction in a penny stock occurs, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s agreement to the transaction. If applicable in the future, these rules may restrict the ability of brokers-dealers to sell our Common Stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares, until our Common Stock no longer is considered a penny stock. Because we do not intend to pay any dividends on our Common Stock, purchases of our Common Stock may not be suited for investors seeking dividend income. Since our inception, we have not paid any dividends on our Common Stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The board has elected not to pay dividends in the future. We expect that future earnings applicable to the Common Stockholders, if any, will be used for working capital and to finance growth. Future sales of our Common Stock may depress our stock price. A significant amount of Common Stock is subject to issuance upon exercise of securities to purchase Common Stock. The exercise and sale of these financial instruments could depress the market price of our Common Stock. A significant amount of our Common Stock may be eligible for sale under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act at different times in the future and its sale could depress the market price of our Common Stock. Provided that all applicable Rule 144 conditions are satisfied, we believe that stockholders holding 16,292,071 shares of our issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock are currently eligible to sell their shares. The Company issued no stock in 2010. We also have issued stock options convertible into an aggregate of 231,500 shares of our Common Stock at an exercise price of between $10 and $13 per share. As of December 31, 2010, there were 31,090 of the stock options exercisable but the remaining 200,410 vest and become exercisable between January 2011 and January 2015. All option exercise prices substantially exceed the market price of our Common Stock on March 29, 2011. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or as a result of the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Common Stock. As of March 29, 2011, we have 50,000,000 authorized shares of which 16,292,071 shares of Common Stock are issued and outstanding. Ownership could be diluted by future issuances of our stock, options, warrants or other securities. Ownership in the Company may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or the exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants or convertible notes to purchase capital stock. In particular, we may sell securities in the future in order to finance operations, expansions, or particular projects or expenditures. There is a limited public trading market for our Common Stock. Our stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “VCGH.” There is a limited public trading market for our Common Stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our Common Stock, and stockholders may be required to hold shares of our Common Stock for an indefinite period of time. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The trading price of our securities may fluctuate significantly. This price may be influenced by many factors, including: • our performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our securities; • sales by selling stockholders of shares issued or issuable in connection with our private placements; • the Going Private Transaction and any public announcements related thereto or any other transaction; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by the analyst; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic conditions. Public stock markets have experienced and are currently experiencing substantial price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our securities. Further, if the Going Private Transaction or any alternative transaction is not completed, the share price of our Common Stock may change, to the extent that the current market price of our Common Stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. Fluctuations in our stock price may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge, or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Other Risk Factors May Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance. Other risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements by affecting, among many things, pricing, consumer spending, and consumer confidence, include, without limitation, changes in economic conditions and financial and credit markets, credit availability, increased fuel costs and availability for our employees, customers and suppliers, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospects of these events (such as reports on avian flu), consumer perceptions of food safety, changes in consumer tastes and behaviors, governmental monetary policies, changes in demographic trends, terrorist acts, energy shortages and rolling blackouts, and weather (including major hurricanes and regional snow storms) and other acts of God. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 