Item 1A. Risk Factors ------------ The following is a discussion of certain significant risk factors that could potentially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We compete for deposits and loan customers with larger financial institutions whose customer bases are broader and whose lending limits exceed Central Jersey Bank, N.A.'s lending limits. We also compete with similar banks focused on the same markets and customers. Competition costs money, and competition could reduce the number of customers using the banking services provided by us. New Jersey is a competitive banking environment. Central Jersey Bank, N.A. competes for deposits and for borrowers with larger and more established in-state and out-of-state financial institutions, including large financial service companies and other entities, in addition to traditional banking institutions such as savings and loan associations, savings banks, commercial banks and credit unions. Because of their greater capitalization and other resources, larger institutions may have competitive advantages resulting from their ability to offer more convenient facilities and higher lending limits. Lending limits are primarily a function of a bank's capital base. Accordingly, larger banks that have much larger capital bases than Central Jersey Bank, N.A., have lending limits which exceed those of Central Jersey Bank, N.A. Several larger banks with branches in our market area have lending limits which exceed $1 billion. At December 31, 2006, Central Jersey Bank, N.A.'s legal lending limit was approximately $6.7 million. Central Jersey Bank, N.A. also has community bank competitors with similar goals and business territories. Three community banks have commenced operations within Central Jersey Bank, N.A.'s existing market area since 1996. 13 We compete by offering personal, local service and extended hours of operation, but we may also compete by offering lower interest rates and paying more to attract deposits. Because we operate in a highly-competitive market, it is likely that the cost of competing for market share is greater for us than it would be for a small bank in a less competitive market. The cost of our competitive efforts may impact profitability, and we can offer no assurance that any of our competitive efforts will be successful. See "Item 1. Business - Competition." Use by other banks of advanced banking technologies creates more competition and could result in increased costs to us in our effort to remain current. Larger and more established banks may have access to more funding for technological research, development and introduction of new technologies, including internet banking, telephone banking and automated teller machine (ATM) technologies. While Central Jersey Bank, N.A. offers access to each of these technologies to its customers, additional capital investment will be required to keep our technology current. Emerging technologies and innovations in existing technologies make the continuing need to improve a constant challenge. Capital expenditures for enhanced technologies may not represent long-term investments, as these technologies quickly become obsolete. Such expenditures also may reduce our profitability. Competition for deposits may impact our profitability. Deposits represent a source of funds for loans made by banks, and competition for deposits could result in fewer funds available to make loans and to generate other interest-earning opportunities. Other banks may compete more effectively for deposits by offering more convenient depositary locations and by keeping branches open for longer hours. We can pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, but this reduces Central Jersey Bank, N.A.'s net interest margin. We also can pay more for advertising and other incentives to attract deposits. However, any of these efforts could lower our profit margins, and we can offer no assurance that they will succeed. Interest rate fluctuations beyond our control influence our profitability. As a result, our financial performance could suffer, despite our best efforts. Our profitability depends in large part on the difference between the interest Central Jersey Bank, N.A. pays on funds available to it, and the interest Central Jersey Bank, N.A. earns on funds it makes available to others. The price of funds may depend on many factors beyond our control, including federal economic, fiscal and monetary policies, and general economic conditions. These factors may be influenced by national and international economic and political trends and events, including inflation, recession, unemployment and international conflicts. Any of these events could trigger an increase in interest rates, which will increase our cost of funds. Fluctuations in interest rates paid by Central Jersey Bank, N.A. for funds it needs could affect our operating performance and condition, by affecting the margin or "spread" between what Central Jersey Bank, N.A. pays for funds and what it earns by charging interest to lend funds. Interest rates were recently at historically low levels. However, the Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate several times. As a result, the yield curve has remained flat or slightly inverted. Consequently, Central Jersey Bancorp and Central Jersey 14 Bank, N.A. have experienced compression of its interest rate spread and net interest margin, which has had, and likely will continue to have, a negative effect on profitability. Our small market area increases the potential impact of regional economic and other conditions, so that localized problems could have unmitigated consequences for us. Our current primary market is coastal Monmouth County, New Jersey. Our branches serve only a portion of this market. Potential problems directly affecting our region, including regional disasters such as floods, or economic problems such as office or plant closings and layoffs, could hinder our growth and hurt our performance, because we may not have branches in unaffected areas to offset localized problems. This could result in losses or make us less profitable. Our newer relationships with smaller customers, and our smaller overall customer base size, could result in larger loan loss experience. To compete with larger lending institutions, we attempt to attract customers seeking new banking relationships. Customers that are not larger businesses or high net-worth individuals may have less capacity to repay loans during economic down-turns or other adverse events. This fact exposes Central Jersey Bank, N.A. to the risk of non-payment or late payment of loans and could result in collection expenses and loan losses. Our experienced lenders and underwriters take into account these considerations, and our strict credit policies, loan approval process and loan monitoring offers additional safeguards. While many of the loans that we approve may be new to our institution, the relationships are known to our staff and have been actively managed by our lenders during their tenure at other financial institutions. However, until our loan portfolio matures, its quality will be difficult to measure, and even after it matures, we can offer no assurance that Central Jersey Bank, N.A. will not incur collection expenses and loan losses. Central Jersey Bank, N.A. participates in loans originated by other financial institutions. Central Jersey Bank, N.A. reviews the credit risk associated with its participation in such loans under the same credit policies that it applies to loans it initiates. The application of these policies may reduce, but does not eliminate, the risk of loan losses. Regulations and regulatory developments may impact our performance by increasing our costs of compliance or increasing competition. Central Jersey Bank, N.A. is subject to extensive governmental supervision, regulation and control. Future legislation and government policy could adversely affect lending trends and practices, deposit volume, the operations of Central Jersey Bank, N.A. and the banking industry as a whole. The statutes and regulations governing financial institutions have been substantially modified during recent years, and likely will continue to be the subject of future modification. Changes in the regulations that govern our operations may increase our costs of compliance, and may give rise to industry-wide changes which could result in other cost increases for Central Jersey Bank, N.A. For example, many of the recent regulatory changes have increased competition between banks and nonbanks, which now may offer similar products and services. They have also increased merger activity between banks and nonbanks, and elevated customer awareness of differences among competitors in products, services and fees. These changes may result in 15 increased competitive efforts by Central Jersey Bank, N.A., resulting in increased costs to Central Jersey Bank, N.A. We compete with larger financial institutions for personnel, and we may have difficulties attracting and retaining qualified employees if larger and more profitable banks and other financial institutions offer more compensation and other benefits than we do. Also, we are dependent on certain key employees, whose loss could hinder our development. Experienced and service-oriented personnel are important to success in the financial services industry. Our business is managed by a team of executives and officers with substantial experience and community contacts in our market area. We are particularly dependent to a significant degree upon the skill and experience of certain executive officers and skilled employees. In addition, our current staff consists of well-trained, qualified employees. We intend to continue to motivate our existing staff and to hire similarly qualified candidates; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so, especially since larger and more profitable banks and other financial institutions generally have greater resources to offer more compensation and other benefits than we do. Increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2006, $272.7 million, or 86.5%, of Central Jersey Bank, N.A.'s total loans consisted of commercial, industrial and commercial real estate loans. This portfolio continues to grow and we intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than the one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to one-to-four- family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose Central Jersey Bank, N.A. to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential loan. We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. During the last five years, our total assets have grown substantially from $118.0 million at December 31, 2001 to $516.3 million at December 31, 2006, through internal growth and the combination with Allaire Community Bank. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion, but we do not anticipate growth to continue at this rate. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits to existing and new branches, and identify favorable loan and investment opportunities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Unmanaged growth may adversely impact our financial results. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open new branches in our existing and target markets. However, we may be unable to identify attractive locations on terms favorable to us or to hire qualified management to operate the new branches. In addition, the organizational 16 and overhead costs may be greater than we anticipated or we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to open new branches. New branches may take longer than expected to reach profitability, and we cannot assure that they will become profitable. The additional costs of starting new branches may adversely impact our financial results. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. For our continued growth and possible expansion, we may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may be unavailable or available at terms unacceptable to us. Central Jersey Bancorp is required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside Central Jersey Bancorp's control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If Central Jersey Bancorp cannot raise additional capital when needed, the ability to further expand its operations could be materially impaired. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease. In an attempt to mitigate any loan losses we may incur, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, and historical loss experience and delinquency trends among loan types. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty and we cannot assure you that charge offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan losses could reduce our earnings. Our hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. We rely upon our existing information systems for operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including deposit and loan information, as well as various internal management functions. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, network failure, improper operation by our employees, security breaches, computer viruses or intentional attacks by third parties. Any disruption in the operation of our information systems could adversely impact our operations, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments ------------------------- None. 17 