Risk Factors” contained in Part I, Item 1A of the Partnership’s 10-K, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Because our only assets are the Partnership’s i-units that we own, our financial condition and results of operations depend solely upon the performance of the Partnership. We are a limited partner of the Partnership and our only assets are the Partnership’s i-units that we own. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations are entirely dependent upon the Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations. You should read the risk factors contained in the Partnership’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and any subsequent annual and quarterly reports filed by the Partnership with the SEC for information regarding the risks and uncertainties that could affect the Partnership’s financial condition and results of operations and, therefore, the value of your shares. The distributions of additional shares that we make to our shareholders depend upon the amount of cash that the Partnership distributes to its Class A and B common unitholders. When the Partnership makes a cash distribution on its Class A and B common units, we distribute on each of our shares that fraction of a share determined by dividing the amount of the cash distribution paid by the Partnership on each common unit by the average market price of one of our shares. Therefore, if the Partnership decreases the cash distributions that it pays to its common unitholders, the value of the distributions of additional shares that we make to our shareholders will decrease as well. Our board of directors may establish cash reserves at the Partnership that it believes are necessary to fund the Partnership’s future operating and capital expenditures, provide for the proper conduct of its business, comply with applicable laws or agreements to which the Partnership is a party, or provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves affect the amount of cash available for distribution by the Partnership to its common unitholders and, consequently, the value of the distributions of additional shares that we make to our shareholders. In addition, the fraction of a share to be issued in each quarterly distribution on our outstanding shares is based on the average closing price of our shares for the ten consecutive trading days preceding 5 the ex-dividend date for our shares. Because the market price of our shares may vary substantially over time, the value of the additional shares that we distribute to our shareholders may vary substantially from the cash that you would have received had you owned common units of the Partnership instead of our shares. The Partnership may issue additional common or other classes of units, and we may issue additional shares, which would dilute your ownership interest. The issuance of additional common or other classes of units by the Partnership or shares by us, other than our quarterly distributions to you, may have the following effects: · the amount available for distributions on each share may decrease; · the relative voting power of each previously outstanding share may decrease; and · the market price of the Listed Shares may decline. Additionally, the public sale by the General Partner of a significant portion of the 3,912,750 Class B common units that it currently owns could reduce the market price of the Class A common units and, indirectly, our shares. The Partnership’s partnership agreement allows the General Partner to cause the Partnership to register for public sale any units held by the General Partner or its affiliates. A public sale of the Class B common units currently held by the General Partner could absorb some of the trading market demand for the outstanding Class A common units, which indirectly could reduce the market price of our shares. In addition, the General Partner may sell its Class B common units in private transactions at any time, which could have a similar effect on the market for the outstanding Class A common units and, indirectly, the shares. In August 2006, the Partnership issued approximately 10.8 million Class C units, representing a new class of limited partner interest, 50 percent to our general partner and 50 percent to an institutional investor. After August 2009, the holders of the Class C units may request that the Class C units be converted into Class A common units which could absorb some of the trading demand for the outstanding Class A common units, which indirectly could reduce the market price of our shares. Should a majority of the Partnership’s unitholders not approve the conversion of the Class C units, the holders (including holders of the Class A common units, Class B common units, Class C units and i-units) of these units would be entitled to receive cash distributions equal to 115 percent of the amount paid to holders of the Partnership’s common and i-units which could indirectly reduce the market price of our shares. Additionally, the holders of the Class C units may sell them in private transactions at any time, which could have a similar effect on the market for outstanding Class A common units, and indirectly, the shares. If we are not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities we incur in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, we may be unable to pay those liabilities and the value of our shares could decline. Under the delegation of control agreement, we have been delegated management of the Partnership and its operating subsidiaries. To the extent we incur liabilities or other obligations in connection with our performance under the delegation of control agreement, we are entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the Partnership to the same extent as the General Partner under the Partnership’s partnership agreement. In the event the Partnership and the General Partner are either unwilling or unable to reimburse or indemnify us, we likely will be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations. Additionally, our right to reimbursement or indemnification is limited under certain circumstances, including if we act in bad faith or if we violate laws, like the U.S. federal securities laws, where indemnification may be against public policy. 6 If in the future we cease to manage the business and affairs of the Partnership, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage the Partnership’s business and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC, or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with our affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. TAX RISKS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS If the Partnership were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the value of our shares would be substantially reduced, and the owner of our voting shares would have the right to merge us into the Partnership. The anticipated benefit of an investment in our shares depends largely on the continued treatment of the Partnership as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Current law requires the Partnership to derive at least 90% of its annual gross income from specific activities to continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership may not find it possible, regardless of its efforts, to meet this income requirement or may inadvertently fail to meet this income requirement. Current law could change so as to cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes without regard to its sources of income or otherwise subject the Partnership to entity-level taxation. If the Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax on its income at the corporate tax rate, which currently is a maximum of 35%, and would pay state income taxes at varying rates. Because a tax would be imposed upon the Partnership as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to its common unitholders could be substantially reduced, which could reduce the value of the i-units we own and the value of your shares. In addition, the automatic increase in the number of i-units that we will own after each quarterly distribution of cash to holders of common units generally would be taxed as a corporate distribution to us. Under the provisions of our limited liability company agreement and the Partnership’s partnership agreement, if the Partnership were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the owner of our voting shares has the right to cause us to merge with or into the Partnership or one of its subsidiaries. As a condition to such merger, we must obtain either an opinion of counsel that such merger should be currently non-taxable to holders of our shares or a ruling from the IRS that such merger will be currently non-taxable to holders of our shares, except as to the consideration received for fractional shares or as to the termination of any rights or obligations related to the purchase provisions. In such event, you would receive common units or other securities substantially similar to the common units in exchange for your shares. RISKS ARISING FROM OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH ENBRIDGE, THE GENERAL PARTNER AND THE PARTNERSHIP Shares are subject to purchase provisions that could result in your having to sell your shares at a time or price that may be unfavorable to you. If Enbridge exercises any of its rights to purchase our shares, you will be required to sell your shares at a time or price that may be undesirable, and you could receive less than you paid for your shares. Any sale of our shares to Enbridge or otherwise for cash will be a taxable transaction to the owner of the shares 7 sold. Accordingly, a gain or loss will be recognized on the sale equal to the difference between the cash received and the owner’s tax basis in the shares sold. The shares you own are not entitled to vote to elect our directors, and, therefore, you will have little or no opportunity to influence or change our management. You have little or no opportunity to influence or change our management, because Enbridge indirectly owns all of our voting shares and elects all of our directors. Through the election of our directors, Enbridge indirectly controls us and the Partnership. Furthermore, if a person or group owns 20% or more of the aggregate number of issued and outstanding common units and our shares, that person or group may not vote its shares. This limitation does not apply to Enbridge and its affiliates. This provision may discourage a person or group from attempting to take over control of us or the Partnership and reduce the price at which our shares will trade under certain circumstances. The terms of our shares may be changed in ways you may not like, because our board of directors will have the power to change the terms of our shares in ways our board determines, in its sole discretion, are not materially adverse to you. As an owner of our shares, you may not like the changes made to the terms of our shares, if any, and you may disagree with our board of directors’ decision that the changes are not materially adverse to you as a shareholder. If you should disagree with our board of directors’ decisions, your recourse will be limited because our limited liability company agreement gives broad latitude and discretion to our board of directors and eliminates or reduces many of the fiduciary duties that our board of directors otherwise would owe to you. Our limited liability company agreement limits the fiduciary duties that our directors owe to our shareholders and restricts the remedies available to our shareholders for actions taken by our board of directors that might otherwise constitute a breach of a fiduciary duty. Our limited liability company agreement contains provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that our board of directors would otherwise owe to our shareholders under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our limited liability company agreement: · permits our board of directors to make a number of decisions, including the determination of which factors it will consider in resolving conflicts of interest, in its “sole discretion.” This entitles our board of directors to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any shareholder; · provides that Enbridge, its affiliates, and their officers and directors who are also our officers and directors are not required to offer us any business opportunities; and · provides that none of our directors or officers will be liable to us or any other person for any act or omission taken or omitted by such director or officer, so long as such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner that such director or officer reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, our best interests. These and similar provisions in our limited liability company agreement may restrict the remedies available to our shareholders for actions taken by our board of directors that might otherwise constitute a breach of a fiduciary duty. The Partnership’s partnership agreement contains similar provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that the board of directors of the General Partner would otherwise owe to the Partnership’s unitholders under state fiduciary duty law. As the delegate of the General Partner, these provisions apply to our directors and officers in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership. 8 Potential conflicts of interest may arise among Enbridge and its shareholders, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders and the Partnership and its common unitholders, on the other hand. Because the fiduciary duties of our directors have been modified, our board of directors may be permitted to make decisions that benefit Enbridge and its shareholders or the Partnership and its unitholders more than us and our shareholders. Conflicts of interest may arise from time to time among Enbridge and its shareholders, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders and the Partnership and its common unitholders, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest may also arise from time to time between us and our shareholders, on the one hand, and the Partnership and its unitholders, on the other hand. In managing and controlling us and the Partnership, our board of directors may consider the interests of all parties to a conflict and may resolve those conflicts by making decisions that benefit Enbridge and its shareholders or the Partnership and its unitholders more than us and our shareholders. The following decisions, among others, could involve conflicts of interest: · whether the Partnership or Enbridge will pursue certain acquisitions or other business opportunities; · whether the Partnership will issue additional units or other equity securities or whether it will purchase outstanding units; · whether we will issue additional shares; · the amount of payments to Enbridge and its affiliates for any services rendered for the Partnership’s benefit; · the amount of costs that are reimbursable to us or Enbridge by the Partnership; · the enforcement of obligations owed to the Partnership by us, the General Partner and Enbridge, including obligations regarding competition between Enbridge and the Partnership; and · the retention of separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us and the Partnership. In these and similar situations, any decision by our board of directors may benefit one group more than another, and in making such decisions, our board of directors may consider the interests of all groups, as well as other factors, in deciding whether to take a particular course of action. In other situations, Enbridge may take certain actions, including engaging in businesses that compete with the Partnership, that are adverse to us and our shareholders and the Partnership and its unitholders. For example, although Enbridge and its subsidiaries are generally restricted from engaging in any business that is in direct material competition with our businesses, that restriction is subject to the following significant exceptions: · Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not restricted from continuing to engage in businesses, including the normal development of such businesses, in which they were engaged at the time of the Partnership’s initial public offering in December 1991; · Such restriction is limited geographically only to those routes and products for which the Partnership provided transportation at the time of its initial public offering; · Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with the Partnership as part of a larger acquisition, so long as the majority of the value of the business or assets acquired, in Enbridge’s reasonable judgment, is not attributable to the competitive business; and 9 · Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with the Partnership if that business is first offered for acquisition to the Partnership and our board of directors and the Partnership’s unitholders determine not to pursue the acquisition. Since the Partnership was not engaged in any aspect of the natural gas business at the time of its initial public offering, Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not restricted from competing with the Partnership in any aspect of the natural gas business. In addition, Enbridge and its subsidiaries would be permitted to transport crude oil and liquid petroleum over routes that are not the same as the Partnership’s Lakehead system, even if such transportation is in direct material competition with the Partnership’s business. These exceptions also expressly permitted the reversal by Enbridge in 1999 of one of its pipelines that extends from Sarnia, Ontario to Montreal, Quebec. As a result of this reversal, Enbridge competes with the Partnership to supply crude oil to the Ontario, Canada market. In the event of a liquidation of the Partnership not resulting from any action taken by the Partnership or otherwise approved by us at the direction of our shareholders, the value of our shares would likely decline. The Partnership may not take any action to cause a liquidation of the Partnership unless, prior to such liquidation, Enbridge has agreed to purchase all of our shares or we have voted to approve such liquidation at the direction of our shareholders. In the event of a liquidation of the Partnership not resulting from any action taken by the Partnership or otherwise approved by us at the direction of our shareholders, the value of your shares will depend on the after-tax amount of the liquidating distribution received by us as the owner of i-units. The terms of the i-units provide that no allocations of income, gain, loss or deduction will be made in respect of the i-units until such time as there is a liquidation of the Partnership. If there is a liquidation of the Partnership, it is intended that we will be allocated income and gain in an amount necessary for the capital account attributable to each i-unit to be equal to that of a common unit. As a result, we likely will realize taxable income upon the liquidation of the Partnership. However, there may not be sufficient amounts of income and gain to cause the capital account attributable to each i-unit to be equal to that of a common unit. If they are not equal, we and, therefore, you will receive less value than would be received by an owner of common units. In that event, the liquidating distribution per common unit will exceed the liquidating distribution per i-unit. Further, the tax indemnity provided to us by Enbridge only indemnifies us for our tax liabilities arising out of a transaction involving the i-units to the extent we have not received sufficient cash in the transaction generating the tax liability to pay the associated tax. Prior to any liquidation of the Partnership, we do not expect to receive cash in a taxable transaction. If a liquidation of the Partnership occurs, however, we likely would receive cash which we would use, at least in part, to pay taxes. As a result, our residual value and the value of our shares will likely be less than the value of the common units upon the liquidation of the Partnership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 