D. Risk Factors An investment in our Common Shares involves a high degree of risk and should be considered speculative. You should carefully consider the following risks set out below and other information before investing in our Common Shares. If any event arising from these risks occurs, the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected, the trading price of Common Shares could decline and all or part of any investment may be lost. The operations of the Company are highly speculative due to the high-risk nature of its business, which include the acquisition, financing, exploration and development of mineral properties. The risks and uncertainties set out below and incorporated by reference herein are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s operations. If any of the risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of the Common Shares could decline and investors could lose part or all of their investment. The Company’s business is subject to significant risks and past performance is no guarantee of future performance. 9 Risks relating to the Company The Company has incurred net losses since its inception and expects losses to continue. The Company has not been profitable since its inception. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2011, the Company had a net loss of Cdn $10,268,000 and an accumulated deficit on August 31, 2011 of Cdn $54,152,000. The Company has never generated revenues and does not expect to generate revenues from operations until one or more of its properties are placed in production. There is a risk that none of the Company’s properties will be placed in production, and that the Company’s operations will not be profitable in the future. The Company’s exploration activities are highly speculative and involve substantial risks. The Company’s exploration activities are highly speculative and involve substantial risks. All of the Company’s properties are in the exploration stage and no proven mineral reserves have been established. The Company’s exploration work may not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore in a commercially economical manner. There may be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations, and interruptions may be caused by adverse weather conditions. The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls. The Company’s exploration activities are subject to substantial hazards, some of which are not insurable or may not be insured for economic reasons. The Company has uninsurable risks. The Company may be subject to unforeseen hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions. The Company may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. The Company depends on key management personnel. The success of the operations and activities of the Company is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of its management including James E. Sinclair, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Steve van Tongeren, Chief Financial Officer. Investors must be willing to rely to a significant extent on their discretion and judgment. The Company does not have employment contracts with the President and Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. The Company maintains key-man life insurance on the President and Chief Executive Officer but not on the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company is required to document and test its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of the United States, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, and a report by the Company’s independent auditors addressing these assessments. During the course of the Company’s testing, the Company may identify material weaknesses which the Company may not be able to remediate for its annual compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If the Company fails to achieve and maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the Company may not be able to ensure that the Company can conclude on an ongoing basis that the Company has effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, the Company’s business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, and the trading price of the Company’s stock could drop significantly. Management identified, for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, a material weakness in internal controls affecting financial reporting of certain matters, which matters were corrected prior to management finalizing the financial statements for the period. See management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company for the year ended August 31, 2010, as incorporated herein by reference. The Company believes it has fully remediated the weakness previously identified, with the completion of full operating effectiveness control documentation and testing, including auditor attestation in the current year ended August 31, 2011. 10 The Company may need additional capital. As a result of the completion of a US$30 million Bought deal offering completed on August 12, 2011, as at August 31,2011, the Company had cash and marketable securities of Cdn $32,428,000 and working capital of Cdn $27,410,000. However, the Company will continue to incur exploration costs to fund its plan of operations and may need to raise additional capital. Ultimately, the Company’s ability to continue its exploration activities depends in part on the Company’s ability to commence operations and generate revenues or to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing agreements or some combination of these or other means. The Company has no cash flow from operations and depends on equity financing for its operations. The Company’s current operations do not generate any cash flow. Any work on the Company’s properties may require additional equity financing. If the Company seeks funding from existing or new joint venture partners, its project interests will be diluted. If the Company seeks additional equity financing, the issuance of additional shares will dilute the current interests of the Company’s current shareholders. The Company may not be able to obtain additional funding to allow the Company to fulfill its obligations on existing exploration properties. The Company’s failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible partial or total loss of the Company’s potential interest in certain properties or dilution of the Company’s interest in certain properties. Conflicts of interest may arise among the Company’s board of directors. Anton Esterhuizen and Norman Betts, directors of the Company, are also directors, officers, or shareholders of other companies that are similarly engaged in the business of acquiring, developing, and exploiting natural resource properties. Mr. Esterhuizen is the Managing Director of Pangea Exploration (Pty.) Ltd., a South African company exploring for minerals in Africa and South America. He is also a Director of NWT Uranium Corp. Dr. Betts serves as Chair of the Board of Directors of Starfield Resources Inc. and as a director and member of the Audit Committee of Adex Mining Inc. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time if the Company were to enter into negotiations to acquire an interest in a mineral project in which their other companies hold an interest, or the Company were to enter into negotiations to sell or joint venture an interest in its mineral properties to any of these companies. The directors of the Company are required to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict will disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) The Canadian Accounting Standards Board has announced that Canadian publicly accountable enterprises must adopt IFRS effective for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. The Company will therefore commence in the first quarter of its 2012 fiscal year with comparative figures. We have completed the assessment phase and are currently working through the implementation phase. The transition to IFRS however, is not anticipated to require any significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures. The Company expects that the areas that will be most affected by the transition to IFRS will be first time adoption, mineral property and exploration costs and stock compensation costs. 11 Risks relating to the Mining Industry The Company cannot accurately predict whether commercial quantities of ores will be established. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors beyond the control of the Company, including the particular attributes of the deposit such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as mineral prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to permitting, prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The Company cannot accurately predict the exact effect of these factors, but the combination of these factors may result in a mineral deposit being unprofitable. The Company has no mineral producing properties at this time. Although the mineralized material estimates included herein have been carefully prepared by the Company, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and there is a risk that a particular level of recovery of gold or other minerals from mineralized material will not in fact be realized or that an identified mineralized deposit, if any, will ever qualify as a commercially mineable or viable reserve. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks. Mineral resource exploration is a speculative business and involves a high degree of risk. The Company has recently completed a detailed review of historical diamond drilling results on the Buckreef Main, South and North Prospects which form the core of the Buckreef Project. The Company is reviewing historical data for the Buckreef Project and evaluating previous drill results in the context of establishing the economic significance of the deeper resources at the Buckreef Project using current gold prices. However, the exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Although the discovery of a resource may result in substantial rewards, few explored properties are ultimately developed into producing mines. Significant expenditures may be required to locate and establish reserves, to develop metallurgical processes and to construct mining and processing facilities at a particular site. The Company may not be able to establish the presence of minerals on a commercially viable basis. The Company’s ability to generate revenues and profits is expected to occur through exploration of its existing properties as well as through acquisitions of interests in new properties. The Company will need to incur substantial expenditures in an attempt to establish the economic feasibility of mining operations by identifying mineral deposits and establishing ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, developing metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore, designing facilities and planning mining operations. The economic feasibility of a project depends on numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including the cost of mining and production facilities required to extract the desired minerals, the total mineral deposits that can be mined using a given facility, the proximity of the mineral deposits to a user of the minerals, and the market price of the minerals at the time of sale. The Company’s existing or future exploration programmes or acquisitions may not result in the identification of deposits that can be mined profitably. The Company depends on consultants and engineers for its exploration programmes. The Company has relied on and may continue to rely upon consultants for exploration development, construction and operating expertise. Substantial expenditures are required to construct mines, to establish ore reserves through drilling, to carry out environmental and social impact assessments, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the exploration infrastructure at any suite chosen for exploration. The Company may not be able to discover minerals in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operation, and the Company may not be able to obtain funds required for exploration on a timely basis. 12 The Company may not have clear title to its properties. Acquisition of title to mineral properties is a very detailed and time-consuming process, and the Company’s title to its properties may be affected by prior unregistered agreements or transfers, or undetected defects. Several of the Company’s prospecting licenses are currently subject to renewal by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals of Tanzania. There is a risk that the Company may not have clear title to all its mineral property interests, or they may be subject to challenge or impugned in the future. See “Mineral Properties – Ownership”. Mining exploration, development and operating activities are inherently hazardous. If the Company experiences mining accidents or other adverse conditions, the Company’s mining operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s exploration activities may be interrupted by any or all of the following mining accidents such as cave-ins, rock falls, rock bursts, pit wall failures, fires or flooding. In addition, exploration activities may be reduced if unfavourable weather conditions, ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered, ore grades are lower than expected, the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable than expected to mining or treatment, dilution increases or electrical power is interrupted. Occurrences of this nature and other accidents, adverse conditions or operational problems in future years may result in the Company’s failure to achieve current or future exploration and production estimates. The Company cannot guarantee when its projects will be placed into production. The Company’s ability to place its projects into production will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or contractors and purchasing additional equipment, or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise or equipment. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available the necessary expertise or equipment when and if the Company places its mineral deposit properties into production. If the Company is unable to successfully retain such expertise and equipment, its development and growth could be significantly curtailed. Upon commencing production, the Company may not achieve its production estimates. The Company is currently reviewing the levels of gold present at the Buckreef Project. Though the Company identified a potentially economic, sub-surface, gold-bearing quartz rubble bed, any potential production and revenues based on production from this area are estimates only. Estimates are based on, among other things, mining experience, resource estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. The Company’s actual production from the Buckreef Project, if it ever achieves production, may be lower than its production estimates. Each of these factors also applies to future development properties not yet in production at the Company’s other projects. In the case of mines the Company may develop in the future, it does not have the benefit of actual experience in its estimates, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates. In addition, development and expansion projects are subject to unexpected construction and start-up problems and delays. The Company’s exploration activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulation govern the development, mining, production, importing and exporting of minerals; taxes; labor standards; occupational health; waste disposal; protection of the environment; mine safety; toxic substances; and other matters. The Company requires licenses and permits to conduct exploration and mining operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company. Applicable laws and regulations will require the Company to make certain capital and operating expenditures to initiate new operations. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to close an operation once it is started until a particular problem is remedied or to undertake other remedial actions. 13 The Company’s mineral interests in Tanzania are held under prospecting licenses granted pursuant to the Mining Act, 2010 (Tanzania) for a period of up to four years, and are renewable two times for a period of up to two years each. There are initial preparation fees and annual rental fees for prospecting licenses based on the total area of the license. Renewals of prospecting licenses can take many months and possibly even years to process by the regulatory authority in Tanzania and there is no guarantee that they will be granted. With each renewal at least 50% of the licensed area, if greater than 20 square kilometres, must be relinquished and if the Company wishes to keep the relinquished one-half portion, it must file a new application for the relinquished portion. There is no guarantee on the timing for processing the new application and whether it will be successful. Risks relating to the Market The Company’s competition is intense in all phases of the Company’s business. The Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral interests, as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. The Company is subject to the volatility of metal and mineral prices. The economics of developing metal and mineral properties are affected by many factors beyond the Company’s control including, without limitation, the cost of operations, variations in the grade ore or resource mined, and the price of such resources. The market prices of the metals for which the Company are exploring are highly speculative and volatile. Depending on the price of gold or other resources, the Company may determine that it is impractical to commence or continue commercial production. The price of gold has fluctuated widely in recent years. The price of gold and other metals and minerals may not remain stable, and such prices may not be at levels that will make it feasible to continue the Company’s exploration activities, or commence or continue commercial production. The Company’s business activities are conducted in Tanzania. The Company’s principal exploration properties are currently located in the United Republic of Tanzania, Africa. Though the government of Tanzania is a stable, multi-party democracy, there is no guarantee that this will continue. Tanzania is surrounded by unstable countries enduring political and civil unrest, and in some cases, civil war. There is no guarantee that the surrounding unrest will not affect the Tanzanian government and people, and therefore, the Company’s mineral exploration activities. Any such effect is beyond the control of the Company and may materially adversely affect its business. The Company may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations relating to the mining industry and foreign investment in Tanzania. The government of Tanzania may institute regulatory policies that adversely affect the exploration and development (if any) of the Company’s properties. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions in this country are beyond the control of the Company and may materially adversely affect its business. Investors should assess the political and regulatory risks related to the Company’s foreign country investments. The Company’s operations in Tanzania are also subject to various levels of economic, social and other risks and uncertainties that are different from those encountered in North America. The Company’s operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. Other risks and uncertainties include extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation, labour unrest, risks of war or civil unrest, government and civil unrest, regional expropriation and nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licences, permits and contracts, illegal mining, corruption, hostage taking, civil war and changing political conditions and currency controls. Infectious diseases (including malaria, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis) are also major health care issues where the Company operates. 14 Mineral exploration in Tanzania is affected by local climatic and economic conditions. The Company’s properties have year round access, although seasonal winter rains from December to March may result in flooding in low lying areas, which are dominated by mbuga, a black organic rich laustrine flood soils. Further, most lowland areas are under active cultivation for corn, rice, beans and mixed crops by subsistence farmers. As a result, the area has been deforested by local agricultural practices for many years. The seasonal rains and deforested areas can create a muddy bog in some areas, which can make access more difficult, and could impede or even prevent the transport of heavy equipment to the Company’s mineral properties at certain times of the year between December and March. Commodity prices are subject to fluctuation. The Company’s future earnings, if any, are directly related to commodity prices as revenues are derived from rental/option payments on its mineral properties and post-production royalties received on the sales of gold. Gold prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including central bank purchases and sales, producer hedging and de-hedging activities, expectations of inflation, the relative exchange rate of the U.S. dollar with other major currencies, interest rates, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions, production costs in major gold-producing regions, speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold and changes in supply, including worldwide production levels. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. In addition, the price of gold has on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes because of speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may materially adversely affect the Company’s financial performance or results of operations. The Company’s operations are subject to issues relating to security and human rights. Civil disturbances and criminal activities such as trespass, illegal mining, theft and vandalism may cause disruptions at the Company’s operations in Tanzania which may result in the suspension of operations. There is no guarantee that such incidents will not occur in the future. Such incidents may halt or delay exploration, increase operating costs, result in harm to employees or trespassers, decrease operational efficiency, increase community tensions or result in criminal and/or civil liability for the Company or its employees and/or financial damages or penalties. The manner in which the Company’s personnel respond to civil disturbances and criminal activities can give rise to additional risks where those responses are not conducted in a manner that is consistent with international standards relating to the use of force and respect for human rights. The failure to conduct security operations in accordance with these standards can result in harm to employees or community members, increase community tensions, reputational harm to the Company and its partners or result in criminal and/or civil liability for the Company or its employees and/or financial damages or penalties. It is not possible to determine with certainty the future costs that the Company may incur in dealing with the issues described above at its operations. Risks relating to the Securities of the Company Current global financial conditions. Following the onset of the credit crisis in 2008, global financial conditions were characterized by extreme volatility. While global financial conditions subsequently stabilized, there remains considerable risk in the system given the extraordinary measures adopted by government authorities to achieve that stability. Global financial conditions could suddenly and rapidly destabilize in response to future economic shocks, as government authorities may have limited resources to respond to future crises. Future economic shocks may be precipitated by a number of causes, including a continued rise in the price of oil, geopolitical instability and natural disasters. Any sudden or rapid destabilization of global economic conditions could impact the Company’s ability to obtain equity or debt financing in the future on terms favorable to the Company. In such an event, the Company’s operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 15 As a foreign private issuer, the Company is subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to U.S. shareholders. The Company is a foreign private issuer under applicable U.S. federal securities laws and, therefore, is not required to comply with all the periodic disclosure and current reporting requirements of Exchange Act. As a result, the Company does not file the same reports that a U.S. domestic issuer would file with the SEC, although the Company will be required to file with or furnish to the SEC the continuous disclosure documents that the Company is required to file in Canada under Canadian securities laws. In addition, the Company’s officers, directors, and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short swing” profit rules of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Therefore, shareholders may not know on as timely a basis when the Company’s officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell Common Shares, as the reporting periods under the corresponding Canadian insider reporting requirements are longer. In addition, as a foreign private issuer the Company is exempt from the proxy rules under the Exchange Act. The Company may lose its foreign private issuer status in the future, which could result in significant additional costs and expenses. In order to maintain the Company’s current status as a foreign private issuer, a majority of its Common Shares must be either directly or indirectly owned by non-residents of the United States, unless the Company also satisfies one of the additional requirements necessary to preserve this status. The Company may in the future lose its foreign private issuer status if a majority of its Common Shares is held in the United States and it fails to meet the additional requirements necessary to avoid loss of foreign private issuer status. The regulatory and compliance costs under U.S. federal securities laws as a U.S. domestic issuer may be significantly more than the costs incurred as a Canadian foreign private issuer eligible to use the MJDS. If the Company is not a foreign private issuer, it would not be eligible to use the MJDS or other foreign issuer forms and would be required to file periodic and current reports and registration statements on U.S. domestic issuer forms with the SEC, which are more detailed and extensive than the forms available to a foreign private issuer. In addition, the Company may lose the ability to rely upon exemptions from NASDAQ corporate governance requirements that are available to foreign private issuers. United States investors may not be able to obtain enforcement of civil liabilities against the Company. The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the United States federal or state securities laws may be affected adversely by the fact that the Company is governed by the Business Corporations Act (Alberta), that the some of the Company’s officers and directors and some of the experts named in this short form prospectus are residents of Canada or otherwise reside outside the United States, and that all, or a substantial portion of their assets and a substantial portion of the Company’s assets, are located outside the United States. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States on certain of the Company’s directors and officers or the experts named in this short form prospectus or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against the Company, certain of its directors and officers or the experts named in this short form prospectus based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws or the securities laws of any state of the United States. There is some doubt as to whether a judgment of a United States court based solely upon the civil liability Provisions of United States federal or state securities laws may not be enforceable in Canada against the Company, its directors and officers or the experts named in this short form prospectus. There is also doubt as to whether an original action could be brought in Canada against the Company or its directors and officers or the experts named in this short form prospectus to enforce liabilities based solely upon United States federal or state securities laws. 16 Common Share prices will likely be highly volatile, and investment could decline in value or the entire investment may be lost. The market price of the Common Shares is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors and events, many of which the Company cannot control. The stock market in general, and the market for mining company stocks in particular, has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for a particular issuer’s securities has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that issuer. Market and industry factors may depress the market price of the Company’s securities, regardless of operating performance. Volatility in the Company’s securities price also increases the risk of securities class action litigation. Future sales of the Company’s currently outstanding Common Shares could cause the market price of the Common Shares to decrease significantly, even if the Company’s business is doing well. Sales of a significant number Common Shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, particularly with respect to sales by affiliates, directors, executive officers or other insiders, could materially and adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Shares and impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Risk of dilution from further equity financings or exercise of Compensation Options and Warrants. If the Company raises additional funding by issuing additional equity securities, such financing may substantially dilute the interests of the Company’s shareholders and reduce the value of their investment. Such additional financing may result in a substantial dilution to the Company’s shareholders and decrease the value of the Company’s securities. 