ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Since our inception in September 2001, we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $204.2 million. We currently market Xolegel, Vusion and Solagé in the United States and Solagé, VANIQA and Denavir in Canada. Our product pipeline includes several product candidates in various stages of clinical development. Prior to our acquisition of Solagé in February 2005, we had generated no revenues from the sale of our products. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and anticipate that our expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we: • conduct additional clinical trials; • conduct research and development on existing and new product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • increase our sales and marketing activities to commercialize our products; • hire additional clinical, scientific, sales and marketing, management and compliance personnel; • add operational, financial and management information systems; and • identify and in-license or acquire additional compounds, technologies, marketed products or businesses. We need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability. We may never generate sufficient sales revenue to achieve and then maintain profitability. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. 26 We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $58.9 million. We believe that our existing cash resources and our interest on these funds will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. We currently have no additional commitments or arrangements for any additional financing to fund the commercialization of our marketed products and the research, development and commercial launch of our product candidates. We will require additional funding in order to continue our commercialization efforts and our research and development programs, including preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, pursue regulatory approvals for our product candidates, pursue the commercial launch of our products, expand our sales and marketing capabilities and for general corporate purposes. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the success of our commercialization of our marketed products; • the costs of commercialization activities, including manufacturing, product marketing, sales and distribution, compliance, and related working capital needs; • the advancement and success of the development of our product candidates, including clinical trial results; • our ability to advance early stage compounds into clinical development; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of manufacturing activities for our clinical trials; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property-related costs, including any possible litigation costs; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative and other strategic arrangements; and • potential acquisition or in-licensing of other technologies, products or businesses. Adequate financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may continue to seek additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or collaborative arrangements and licensing agreements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders would experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing that we raise or additional equity we may sell may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our common stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it will be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Lack of funding could adversely affect our ability to pursue our business. For example, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail significantly or eliminate one or more of our product development programs. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. We are a relatively new company and our sales prospects are uncertain as we have only recently commenced our commercialization efforts. In the U.S. we currently only have three FDA-approved products: Solagé, Vusion and Xolegel. We cannot predict with certainty the timing of level of sales on these products in the future. If our quarterly sales or operating results fall below expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. 27 Risks Related to Development of Product Candidates We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. We must conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our product candidates in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. Our success will depend on the success of our currently ongoing clinical trials and subsequent clinical trials that have not yet begun. It takes several years to complete the clinical trials of a product, and a failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We believe that the development of each of our product candidates involves significant risks at each stage of testing. If clinical trial difficulties and failures arise, our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. We do not believe that any of our product candidates have alternative uses if our current development activities are unsuccessful. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials. These difficulties and risks may result in the failure to receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates or the inability to commercialize any of our product candidates. For instance, we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit commercial use if approved. For example, in June 2005, we announced that our Hyphanox product candidate failed to reach the primary endpoint in its Phase 3, non-inferiority trial for the treatment of vaginal candidiasis. Consequently, the results of this trial were not sufficient to support a filing for regulatory approval for Hyphanox in that indication. The risk of clinical trial failure is even greater where the product candidate contains a new chemical entity, such as Azoline, Rambazole and Hivenyl, and where the product candidate uses a novel or not fully known mechanism of action, such as Rambazole. Likewise, the risk of discovering harmful side effects is greater where the product candidate contains a new chemical entity. In addition, the possibility exists that: • the results from early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; • institutional review boards or regulators, including the FDA, may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • subjects may drop out of our clinical trials; • our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials; and • the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate. For example, the FDA has placed our Liarozole and oral Rambazole product candidates on clinical hold. Moreover, due to the expected costs and time required to address the FDA’s request for significant additional safety data and other requirements for Liarozole, we have placed the further development of this product candidate on hold. We may never complete the development of Liarozole. If we do not receive regulatory approval to sell our product candidates or cannot successfully commercialize our product candidates, we would not be able to grow revenues in future periods, which would result in significant harm to our financial position and adversely impact our stock price. 28 If our clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would materially harm our business. Planned clinical trials may not begin on time, may take longer to complete than anticipated, or may need to be restructured after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining an effective investigational new drug application, or IND, or regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • identifying and engaging a sufficient number of clinical trial sites; • negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective trial sites; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting qualified subjects to participate in clinical trials in a timely manner; • competition in recruiting clinical investigators; • shortage or lack of availability of supplies of drugs for clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; • the placement of a clinical hold on a study; • the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and • exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. The risk of delay is greater for large scale clinical trials such as our Phase 3 trial for Hyphanox in toenail onychomycosis. This is because studies which have a greater number of patients and investigator sites are more likely to experience one or more of the occurrences identified above. If we are not able to identify and engage a sufficient number of investigator sites or enroll a sufficient number of patients in our Hyphanox Phase 3 study in a timely manner, the completion of that trial would be delayed. All of our product candidates have significant milestones to reach, including the successful completion of clinical trials, before commercialization. If we continue to have significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates or any other products that we may develop will be adversely impacted. In addition, our product development costs would increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates or approvals may be delayed, either of which could materially harm our business. Government authorities in the United States and foreign countries extensively regulate the development, testing, manufacture, distribution, marketing and sale of our product candidates and our ongoing research and development activities. Our failure to receive regulatory approval, or failure to receive regulatory approval within the anticipated timeframe, for our product candidates could significantly adversely affect future revenues. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. According to the FDA, a Phase 1 clinical trial typically takes several months to complete, a Phase 2 clinical trial typically takes several months to two years to complete and a Phase 3 clinical trial typically takes one to four years to complete. Moreover, Phase 3 clinical trials may not directly follow successful completion of Phase 2 29 clinical trials, as additional non-clinical and clinical trials may be required prior to initiating a Phase 3 trial. For instance, under recently revised guidelines of the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, the FDA requires a cardiovascular safety study at the expected dose and an elevated dose prior to initiating Phase 3 clinical trials. In addition, additional trials may be needed following successful completion of a Phase 3 clinical trial prior to seeking marketing approval. For instance, depending upon the outcome of our ongoing Phase 3 trial for Hyphanox, and any directions or feedback we may receive from regulatory agencies, we may need to perform additional non-clinical or clinical studies prior to seeking marketing approval for Hyphanox. Industry sources report that the preparation and submission of new drug applications, or NDAs, which are required for regulatory approval, generally take six months to one year to complete after completion of a pivotal clinical trial. Industry sources also report that approximately 10 to 15% of all NDAs accepted for filing by the FDA are rejected and that FDA approval, if granted, usually takes approximately one year after submission, although it may take longer if additional information is required by the FDA. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the FDA will approve any NDA that we may file. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America reports that only one out of five product candidates that enter clinical trials will ultimately be approved by the FDA for commercial sale. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies, clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. For example in May 2005, the FDA issued a not approvable letter for Vusion. Although the FDA ultimately approved our Vusion product in February 2006, the FDA’s initial interpretation of our data and resulting not approvable letter resulted in delay of approximately nine months. Changes in the FDA approval process during the development period or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may also cause delays in the approval or result in rejection of an application. In addition, recent withdrawals of approved products by major pharmaceutical companies have resulted in a renewed focus on safety at the FDA, which may result in delays in the approval process. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may reject our data or disagree with our interpretations of regulations or our clinical trial data or ask for additional information at any time during their review, which could result in one or more of the following: • delays in our ability to submit an NDA; • the refusal by the FDA to file any NDA we may submit; • requests for additional studies or data; • delays of an approval; or • the rejection of an application. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn, including for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, an increase in, or appearance of new, adverse events, or if clinical or manufacturing problems follow initial marketing. If our product candidates are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. In addition, any proposed brand name that we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed product names, including an 30 evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would severely harm our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate domestic and foreign statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we fail to obtain or maintain, or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining, regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any product candidate we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues, and our liquidity and capital resources. Some of our product candidates are based on new chemical entities that have not been extensively tested in humans, which may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Some of our product candidates are based on new chemical entities that have not been extensively tested in humans. The regulatory requirements governing these types of products may be less well defined or more rigorous than for conventional products. As a result, we may experience a longer and more expensive regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals of these types of product candidates. This risk is particularly applicable to our oral and topical Rambazole product candidates, which are based on a novel class of molecules known as retinoic acid metabolism blocking agents. Since 2004, the FDA has become increasingly concerned about the safety profile of a class of drugs known as synthetic retinoids. Although oral Rambazole is not a synthetic retinoid, it blocks the intracellular metabolism of natural retinoic acid in cells, resulting in an increased accumulation of the body’s own retinoic acid. Since this accumulation is designed to provide the same therapeutic benefits of synthetic retinoid therapy, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose a more difficult, time consuming and expensive regulatory path in order to commence and complete the clinical testing of these product candidates as compared to others in our pipeline at the same stage of development. The FDA has placed our Liarozole and oral Rambazole product candidates on clinical hold. Due to the expected costs and time required to address the FDA’s request for significant additional safety data and other requirements for Liarozole, we have placed the further development of this product candidate on hold. Since, the active ingredient of our topical Rambazole product candidate is the same as oral Rambazole, we may experience a longer and more expensive regulatory process for this product candidate, as well. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, we would not be able to market our products abroad, and the growth of our revenues, if any, would be limited. We intend to have our products marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions. For example, although our Xolegel product has received marketing approval from the FDA, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for Xolegel in Europe since the European regulatory authorities require data that could only be obtained by conducting an additional clinical trial, which we currently do not plan to do. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Risks Related to Commercialization If our products and product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from their sales will be limited. The commercial success of our products and our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of these products by physicians, patients and healthcare payors. Safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness, particularly as compared to competitive products, are the primary factors that affect market acceptance. Even if a product displays a favorable efficacy and safety profile in clinical trials, market acceptance of the product will not be known until after it is launched. In the United States, we have three FDA approved products: Xolegel, Vusion and Solagé. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party healthcare payors on the benefits of Xolegel, Vusion and Solagé, or any of our future products may require significant resources and may never be successful. If our products fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, including coverage by private and public health care insurers, or if new products or technologies are introduced by others that are more favorably received than our products, or if we are otherwise unable to market and sell our products successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth will suffer. If third-party payors do not reimburse patients for our products those products might not be used or purchased, and our revenues and profits will be adversely affected and may not grow. Our revenues and profits depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party healthcare and state and federal government payors. Third-party payors include state and federal programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care organizations, private insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Reimbursement by a third-party payer may depend upon a number of factors, including determination if the product is: • competitively priced; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • approved for the intended use. Since reimbursement approval for a product is required from third-party and government payors, seeking this approval, particularly when seeking approval for a preferred form of reimbursement over other competitive products, is a time-consuming and costly process. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generics are often favored on formularies and the active ingredients in each of our marketed products are generically available, although not in the same formulations as our products. Consumers and third-party payors may not view our marketed products as cost-effective, and consumers may not be able to get reimbursement or reimbursement may be so low that we cannot market our products on a competitive basis. If a product is excluded from a formulary, its usage may be sharply reduced in the managed care organization patient population. If our products, particularly our Vusion and Xolegel products, are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. 32 Any regulatory approval we may receive for our product candidates may be subject to limitations on its indicated uses which could adversely affect our ability to market the product as anticipated. Even if regulatory approval of one or more of our product candidates is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. If this happens it could adversely affect our ability to market that product and potentially adversely affect our revenues for that product. If we fail to comply with the laws governing the marketing and sale of our products regulatory agencies may take action against us, which could significantly harm our business. As a pharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In particular, there are many federal, state and local laws that we need to comply with now that we are engaged in the marketing, promoting, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products. The FDA extensively regulates, among other things, promotions and advertising of prescription drugs. In addition, the marketing and sale of prescription drugs that are covered under Medicaid and Medicare, must comply with the Federal fraud and abuse laws, which are enforced by the Office of the Inspector General of the Division, or OIG, of the Department of Health and Human Services. These laws make it illegal for anyone to give or receive anything of value in exchange for a referral for a product or service that is paid for, in whole or in part, by any federal health program. The federal government can pursue fines and penalties under the Federal False Claims Act which makes it illegal to file, or induce or assist another person in filing, a fraudulent claim for payment to any governmental agency. Since, as part of our commercialization efforts, we provide physicians with samples we must comply with the Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which governs the distribution of prescription drug samples to healthcare practitioners. Among other things, the PDMA prohibits the sale, purchase or trade of prescription drug samples. It also sets out record keeping and other requirements for distributing samples to licensed healthcare providers. In addition, we must comply with the body of laws comprised of the Medicaid Rebate Program, the Veterans’ Health Care Act of 1992 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005. This body of law governs product pricing for government reimbursement and sets forth detailed formulas for how we must calculate the pricing of our products so as to ensure that the federally funded programs will get the best price. Moreover, many states have enacted laws dealing with fraud and abuse, false claims, the distribution of prescription drug samples and the calculation of best price. These laws typically mirror the federal laws but in some cases, the state laws are more stringent than the federal laws and often differ from state to state, making compliance more difficult. We expect more states to enact similar laws, thus increasing the number and complexity of requirements with which we would need to comply. Compliance with this body of laws is complicated, time consuming and expensive. We are a relatively small company that only recently began selling pharmaceutical products. As such, we have very limited experience in developing and managing, and training our employees regarding, a comprehensive healthcare compliance program. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that the law has been violated. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to penalties such as the imposition of significant fines, debarment from participating in drug development and marketing and the exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs. The imposition of one or more of these penalties could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to conduct our business as planned. In addition, the Federal False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit alleging the false or fraudulent submission of claims for payment under federal programs and other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam 33 actions, have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that companies like us may have to defend a false claim action. We could also become subject to similar false claims litigation under state statutes. If we are unsuccessful in defending any such action, such action may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements governing the manufacture of our marketed products, regulatory agencies may take action against us, which could significantly harm our business. The manufacturing facilities and processes for our marketed products are subject to continual requirements and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, as well as with compliance with the current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. We rely on the compliance by our contract manufacturers with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture of products. Other than through contract, we do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our present or future contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMPs and other FDA requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of our contract manufacturers or our employees to comply with applicable regulations or the discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes may result in any of the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; and • product seizure. We rely on third parties to perform many necessary commercial services for our products, including services related to the distribution, storage, and transportation of our products. We rely on the Specialty Pharmaceutical Services unit of Cardinal Health PTS, LLC, to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products in the United States. These services include distribution, logistics management, inventory storage and transportation, invoicing and collections. We rely on McKesson Logistics Solutions for similar functions related to the import, quality testing, sale and distribution of our products in Canada. If these third party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties, our ability to deliver products to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. We depend on three wholesalers for the vast majority of our product revenues in the United States, and the loss of any of these wholesalers would decrease our revenues. The prescription drug wholesaling industry in the United States is highly concentrated, with a vast majority of all sales made by three major full-line companies. Those companies are Cardinal Health, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen. Approximately 87% of our product revenues in 2006 were from these three companies. Although we have entered into agreements with each of these companies concerning the terms of 34 their purchase of products from us, none of them is under an obligation to continue to purchase our products. The loss of any of these wholesalers, a material reduction in their purchases, the cancellation of product orders or unexpected returns of unsold products, or the failure to pay an outstanding invoice, from any one of these wholesalers could decrease our revenues and impede our future growth prospects. We may acquire additional products, product candidates, technology and businesses in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could damage our ability to attain profitability. We have acquired our entire current product pipeline by licensing intellectual property from third parties, and we may acquire additional products or product candidates or technologies that complement or augment our existing product development pipeline. However, because we acquired substantially all of our existing product candidates in the same transaction, we have limited experience integrating products or product candidates into our existing operations. Integrating any newly acquired product or product candidate could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired product or product candidate successfully. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to make these acquisitions, which may result in dilution for stockholders and the incurrence of indebtedness. We plan to consider, as appropriate, acquisitions of businesses, which may subject us to a number of risks that may affect our stock price, operating results and financial condition. If we were to acquire a business in the future, we would need to consolidate and integrate its operations with our business. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources, and could prove to be more difficult and expensive than we predicted. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our post-marketing studies for one or more of our marketed products produce undesirable results, the FDA may require us to make changes to the applicable product’s label which could adversely affect our ability to market that product. In connection with its approval of our Xolegel and Vusion products, the FDA has required us to conduct additional post marketing studies. For Xolegel, we must perform a pre-clinical dermal carcinogenicity study in mice to determine the carcinogenic potential of repeated treatment courses of Xolegel over a prolonged period of time. For Vusion, we must conduct two Phase 4 clinical studies: a percutaneous absorption study to determine the amount, if any, of miconazole nitrate which is absorbed into the bloodstream through the skin and its potential effect on liver function; and a microbial resistance study to evaluate the extent, if any, to which the candida yeast may develop resistance to repeated treatment courses with Vusion. If any of these studies, or any Phase 4 clinical study that we may elect to conduct, produces undesirable results, the FDA could require us to make changes to the approved label for Xolegel or Vusion, as applicable, which would adversely affect our ability to market that product and potentially adversely affect our revenues for that product. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues. In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union and Canada, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels our business could be materially harmed. The risk of being unable to obtain pricing at a satisfactory level is greater for products for which the active ingredient is generically available such as our Vusion and Xolegel products and our Hyphanox product candidate. For example, although our Vusion product candidate, which we market under the name “Zimycan” in Belgium, has received marketing approval from several countries in Europe, our distributor has not launched that 35 product in any of those countries, due to the inability to obtain acceptable pricing. This product might not be launched in any country in which we are not able to obtain pricing approval at a satisfactory level. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties for Manufacturing, Research and Development and Marketing and Distribution Activities Because we have no manufacturing capabilities, we contract with third-party contract manufacturers whose performance may be substandard or not in compliance with regulatory requirements, which could increase the risk that we will not have adequate supplies of our product candidates and harm our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We do not have any manufacturing experience or facilities. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce the products that we commercialize and use in our clinical trials. If we are unable to retain our current, or engage additional, contract manufacturers, we will not be able to conduct our clinical trials or sell any products for which we receive regulatory approval. The risks associated with our reliance on contract manufacturers include the following: • Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel. As a result, our contract manufacturers might not be able to meet our clinical development schedules or adequately manufacture our products in commercial quantities when required. • Changing manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers for some of our product candidates may be limited and, in one case, there is only a single source of supply. Specifically, the intermediate for our product candidate Hyphanox is manufactured using a process that is proprietary to our contract manufacturer. We do not have a license to the technology used by our contract manufacturer to make the intermediate needed for the Hyphanox tablets. If this manufacturer cannot provide adequate supplies of the intermediate for Hyphanox, we cannot sublicense this technology to a third party to act as our supplier. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for us to find a qualified replacement manufacturer quickly or on terms acceptable to us, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies, or at all. • Each of our marketed products could be produced by multiple manufacturers. However, if we need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance. This would involve testing and pre-approval inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. • Our contract manufacturers may breach our manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. We may compete with other drug developers for access to manufacturing facilities for our products and product candidates. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our products we may not be able to distribute our products as planned which could adversely affect our revenues. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates. Dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates may reduce our profit margins, if any, and may limit our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. We rely on a single source supplier for the manufacture of each of our marketed products and the active ingredients contained in those products and the loss of these suppliers could disrupt our business. Although each of our marketed products and the active ingredients in those products can be produced by multiple manufacturers, we predominately rely on a single source of supply for those products and active ingredients. If any of these manufacturers, or any manufacturer of any other ingredient or component contained in our marketed products or their packaging, were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with 36 these products or ingredients, we may need to obtain an alternate supplier. The process of changing or adding a manufacturer includes qualification activities and may require approval from the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies, and can be time consuming and expensive. If we are not able to manage this process efficiently or if an unforeseen event occurs, we could face supply disruptions that would result in significant costs and delays, undermine goodwill established with physicians and patients, damage the commercial prospects for our products and adversely affect our operating results. If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products and product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials. Contract research organizations also assist us in the collection and analysis of trial data. The investigators, contract research organizations, and other contractors are not our employees, and we cannot control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time, that they devote to our product candidates. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial that have been approved by regulatory agencies and for ensuring that we report product-related adverse events in accordance with applicable regulations. Furthermore, the FDA and European regulatory authorities require us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. In connection with our reliance on our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended, terminated, or deemed unacceptable including as a result of: • the failure of these investigators and research organizations to comply with good clinical practice or to meet their contractual duties; • the failure of our independent investigators to devote sufficient resources to the development of our product candidates or to perform their responsibilities at a sufficiently high level; • our need to replace these third parties for any reason, including for performance reasons or if these third parties go out of business; or • the existence of problems in the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain due to the failure to adhere to clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. Extensions, delays, suspensions or terminations of our clinical trials as a result of the performance of our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations will delay, and make more costly, regulatory approval for any product candidates that we may develop. In addition, although we have used a number of contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, there are many other qualified contract research organizations available. Any change in a contract research organization during an ongoing clinical trial could seriously delay that trial and potentially compromise the results of the trial. We are dependent upon distribution arrangements and marketing alliances to commercialize our product candidates outside the United States and Canada. These distribution arrangements and marketing alliances place the marketing and sale of our product candidates in these regions outside our control. We have entered into distribution arrangements and marketing alliances relating to the commercialization of some of our product candidates. Dependence on these arrangements and alliances subjects us to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our distributors may devote to the commercialization of our product candidates; 37 • our distributors may experience financial difficulties; • our distributors may determine not to launch our product candidates in countries where the distributor determines that commercialization of a particular product candidate is not feasible or is economically unreasonable due to government pricing controls or other market conditions existing in a particular country; • business combinations or significant changes in a distributor’s business strategy may also adversely affect a distributor’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • these arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which could interrupt the marketing and sales of a product and decrease our revenue. We may not be successful in entering into additional distribution arrangements and marketing alliances with third parties for our earlier stage product candidates. Our failure to enter into these arrangements on favorable terms could delay or impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates outside the United States and Canada and could increase our costs of commercialization. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating these agreements with third parties because under our license agreements, Johnson & Johnson, through any of its affiliates, has a right of first negotiation for the commercialization of our product candidates that are based on the licensed intellectual property. Because this first right of negotiation may only be triggered after Phase 2b clinical trials and could extend for up to 180 days, it may hinder our ability to enter into distribution agreements and marketing alliances. It may also delay our receipt of any milestone payments or reimbursement of development costs. Risks Related to Intellectual Property There are limitations on our patent rights relating to our products and product candidates that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to our products and product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us. In particular: • We do not hold composition of matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Xolegel, Vusion, Solagé, or our Hyphanox product candidate. Composition of matter patents on active pharmaceutical ingredients are the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. The active ingredients for Solagé, Vusion, Xolegel and Hyphanox are off patent. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. • The composition of matter patent covering the formulation of our Vusion product is scheduled to expire on March 27, 2007, meaning that competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer a product with the same formulation following the expiration of our Hatch Waxman marketing exclusivity in February 2009. Although we have submitted an application for up to five years of patent term extension, it is possible that the USPTO could reject that application or grant an extension for a shorter period of time. • Our patent licenses from Janssen Pharmaceutica Products, L.P., Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. and Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. are limited to the field of dermatology. As a result, if we were to discover that one or more of our product candidates had potential to be effective in indications outside the field of dermatology, we would not be able to capitalize on that potential without first obtaining a license to do so. We may not be able to obtain such a license on attractive terms or at all. 38 These limitations on our patent rights may result in competitors taking product sales away from us, which would reduce our revenues and harm our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license development or commercialization rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. All of our current product candidates in clinical development are based on intellectual property that we have licensed from Janssen Pharmaceutica Products, L.P., Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. and Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. We depend, and will continue to depend, on these license agreements. The terms of these licenses are set out in two license agreements. These license agreements may be terminated on a product-by-product basis, if, by dates specified in the license agreements, we are not conducting active clinical development of the particular product or if we do not obtain regulatory approval for that product. Either of the license agreements may also be terminated if we breach that license agreement and do not cure the breach within 90 days or in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation. Disputes may arise with respect to our licensing agreements regarding manufacturing, development and commercialization of any products relating to this intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in or termination of the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates or to litigation. Various aspects of our Johnson & Johnson license agreements may adversely affect our business. Under our principal license agreements, neither Johnson & Johnson nor any of its affiliates is restricted from developing or acquiring products that may address similar indications as our products or otherwise compete with our products. We have the sole right to commercialize any product candidate based on intellectual property licensed to us under these agreements that we elect to commercialize ourselves or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. In other circumstances, however, Johnson & Johnson and any of its affiliates has a right of first negotiation for the commercialization of our product candidates based on such intellectual property. The rights of first negotiation for the commercialization of our product candidates can be exercised on a territory-by-territory basis. This negotiation may extend for up to 180 days, which may delay our commercialization efforts or hinder our ability to enter into distribution agreements. The license agreements also permit each of Janssen Pharmaceutica Products, L.P., Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. and Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., to abandon its maintenance of any patents or the prosecution of any patent applications included in the licensed intellectual property for any reason. If any of these companies abandon these activities, we have the option to undertake their maintenance and prosecution if we decide to prevent their abandonment. To date, we have assumed the maintenance and prosecution for all of the patents and patent applications relating to our Xolegel and Vusion product candidates. If we are required to undertake these activities for any additional product candidates, our operating costs will increase. In addition, our license agreements limit our use of our product candidates to the specific field of dermatology as defined in the license agreements. As so defined, dermatology consists of applications for the treatment or prevention of diseases of human skin, hair, nails and oral and genital mucosa, but excludes treatments for skin cancer. This field of use restriction may limit our ability to market our products for indications outside of dermatology and, therefore, limit the potential market size for our products. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products similar or identical to ours, which may reduce demand for our product candidates. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates and our ability to prevent third parties from infringing our proprietary rights. 39 The patent situation in the field of biotechnology and pharmaceuticals generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. We also may not have the resources to aggressively protect and enforce existing patent protection, and our competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement lawsuits, which are expensive and time-consuming. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on patent protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we expect to seek patent protection for our new proprietary technologies and some of our product candidates. The risk exists, however, that new patents may be unobtainable and that the breadth of the claims in a patent, if obtained, may not provide adequate protection for our proprietary technologies or product candidates. Although we own or otherwise have rights to a number of patents, these patents may not effectively exclude competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued United States patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in the foreign patents or patent applications. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in the elimination or narrowing of patent claims and, therefore, reduce our patent protection. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could result in the forfeiture of these rights. Any issued patents that cover our proprietary technologies may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial to us. The issuance of a patent may be challenged with respect to its validity or its enforceability. In particular, if a competitor were to file a paragraph IV certification under the United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, in connection with that competitor’s submission to the FDA of an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, for approval of a generic version of any of our products for which we believed we held a valid patent, then we would have 45 days in which to initiate a patent infringement lawsuit against such competitor. In any infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, may narrow our patent claims or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. If a court so found that one of our patents was invalid or not infringed in an infringement suit under paragraph IV of the Hatch-Waxman Act, then the FDA would be permitted to approve the competitor’s ANDA resulting in a competitive generic product. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology may be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secrets relating to unpatented know-how and technological innovations to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties. We also have confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and our consultants. If our employees, consultants or other third parties breach these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any of these breaches. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. 40 If the development of our product candidates infringes the intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or cease our development activities and pay damages, which could significantly harm our business. Even if we have our own patents which protect our products and our product candidates they may nonetheless infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In these cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our collaborators, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our collaborators could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, as a result of a patent infringement suit brought against us, or our collaborators, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to be stopped or be delayed. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our product candidates or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Risk Related to Our Industry Federal legislation will likely increase the pressure to reduce the price of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which will adversely affect our revenues. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reformed the way Medicare covers and reimburses for pharmaceutical products. The law expands Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, the law provides authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost initiatives and other provisions of this law could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for our products and could seriously harm our business. If we are not able to retain our current senior management team or attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our senior management team for our business success. In addition, an important element of our strategy is to leverage the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our current management in our development activities. The loss of key employees may result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the further commercialization of our products and development of product candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified and talented senior management personnel, our business may suffer. In addition, competition for qualified scientific, technical, and business personnel is intense in the pharmaceutical industry. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, our business will suffer. 41 We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of products may expose us to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is even greater for our product candidates that are administered orally such as Hyphanox, Azoline, Rambazole and Hivenyl or which contain a new chemical entity such as Azoline, Rambazole and Hivenyl. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we may incur substantial losses or expenses, be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates and face adverse publicity. We have product liability insurance coverage with a $10 million annual aggregate coverage limit, and our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash. If our competitors develop and market products faster than we do or if the products of our competitors are considered more desirable than ours, revenues for any of our products and product candidates that are approved for marketing will not develop or grow. The pharmaceutical industry, and the dermatology segment in particular, is highly competitive and includes a number of established, large and mid-sized pharmaceutical companies, as well as smaller emerging companies, whose activities are directly focused on our target markets and areas of expertise. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our product candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: • capital resources; • research and development resources, including personnel and technology; • regulatory experience; • preclinical study and clinical trial experience; and • manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than us. Our competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates or technologies. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. Each of our marketed products competes, and if approved each of our product candidates will compete, for a share of the existing market with numerous products that have become standard treatments recommended or prescribed by physicians. For example, we believe the primary competition for our marketed products are: • For Xolegel, in the treatment of seborrheic dermatitis, Nizoral from Janssen, Desowen from Galderma S.A., Loprox from Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation and the generic equivalents of each. 42 • For Vusion in the treatment of diaper dermatitis complicated by candidiasis, from ointments and creams containing nystatin, Mycolog II from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, clotrimazole containing creams from Bayer AG and from generic manufacturers and topical miconazole creams. None of these products are indicated for the treatment of diaper dermatitis complicated by documented candidiasis. • For Solagé in the treatment of solar lentigenes from Triluma from Galderma S.A., Avage from Allergan, Inc., EpiQuin Micro from SkinMedica, Inc. and other prescription 4% hydroquinone formulations as well as over-the-counter 2% hydroquinone products, Retin-A from Neutrogena and other tretinoin containing topical formulations. We believe the primary competition for our later stage product candidates in development are: • For Hyphanox, in the treatment of onychomycosis, Sporanox from Janssen and generic manufacturers, Lamisil from Novartis AG and generic manufacturers, and Penlac from Dermik Laboratories. • For oral Rambazole, in the treatment of psoriasis, Soriatane from Hoffman-La Roche and Stiefel Laboratories, biologic agents such as Amevive from Astellas Pharma US, Inc., Raptiva from Genentech, Inc., and methotrexate from generic manufacturers. • For Azoline, in the treatment of acute fungal infections, topical antifungals including Loprox from Medicis, Lotrimin AF from Schering-Plough and generic manufacturers, Lotrimin Ultra from Schering Plough, Lamisil AT from Novartis, and ketoconazole, miconazole and nystatin from generic manufacturers. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop below the price you pay. Market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and specialty pharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • results of our clinical trials or those of our competitors; • the regulatory status of our product candidates; • failure of any of our products to achieve commercial success; • developments concerning our competitors and their products; • success of competitive products and technologies; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • our ability to manufacture any products to commercial standards; • public concern over our drugs; • litigation involving our company or our general industry or both; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; • departure of key personnel; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; 43 • investors’ general perception of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. If any of these risks occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 