Risk Factors” below. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors which may affect future results of operations. If any of the adverse events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and you may lose part or all of the value of your investment. If you choose to invest in our securities, you should be able to bear a complete loss of your investment. We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. We will need additional financing to further our drug and delivery platform development programs as well as future trials. In our capital-raising efforts, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a bank credit facility. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that would restrict our operations. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our research and development activities, we may not be able to continue operations, or we may have to enter into collaboration agreements that could require us to share commercial rights to our products to a greater extent or at earlier stages in the drug development process than is currently intended. These collaborations, if consummated prior to proof-of-efficacy or safety of a given product candidate, could impair our ability to realize value from that product candidate. If our business does not generate the cash needed to finance our ongoing operations, we will likely need to continue to raise additional capital. The market price and volume of our common stock fluctuate significantly and could result in substantial losses for individual investors. The stock market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease. In addition, the market price and volume of our common stock is highly volatile. Factors that may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease include: •adverse results or delays in our clinical trials; •fluctuations in our results of operations, timing and announcements of our bio-technological innovations or new products or those of our competitors; •developments concerning any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may enter into; •announcements of FDA non-approval of our drug products, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory review process or actions; •adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our drug products, clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; •any lawsuit involving us or our drug products; •developments with respect to our patents and proprietary rights; •announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; •public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; •regulatory developments in the United States and in foreign countries; •changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock or lack of analyst coverage; •the pharmaceutical industry conditions generally and general market conditions; •failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; •sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; •changes in accounting principles; and •loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. We face heavy government regulation, and FDA regulatory approval of our products is uncertain. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products such as those that we are developing are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA. To obtain regulatory approval of a product, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations (cGMP). 9 The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals and clearances will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of preclinical and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is in development for, and the requirements applicable to that particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including that: oa drug candidate may not be shown to be safe or effective; othe FDA may not approve our manufacturing process; othe FDA may interpret data from preclinical and clinical trials in different ways than we do; and othe FDA may not meet, or may extend, the Prescription Drug User Fee Act date with respect to a particular New Drug Application (“NDA”). For example, if certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data are not accepted by the FDA, we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Moreover, if and when our products do obtain marketing approval, the marketing, distribution and manufacture of such products would remain subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in: owarning letters ofines ocivil penalties oinjunctions orecall or seizure of products ototal or partial suspension of production orefusal of the government to grant future approvals owithdrawal of approvals ocriminal prosecution Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing of our products. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. If we do not raise additional funds, we will not be able to continue operations or complete the necessary clinical and preclinical trials to complete development of Squalamine and our sustained release ophthalmological platform or our other products and will not be able to sell them anywhere. We will not be able to sell Squalamine and our sustained release ophthalmological platform or our other products in the United States unless we submit, and the FDA approves, an NDA for each such product. We must conduct clinical trials of each of our products in humans before we submit an NDA. We do not have sufficient capital currently to complete the necessary trials to complete the development of Squalamine and our sustained release ophthalmological platform or any of our other therapeutic drug products. It is possible that the results of clinical and preclinical studies of Squalamine and our sustained release ophthalmological platform or our other products will not prove that they are safe and effective. It is also possible that the FDA will not approve the sale of any of our products in the United States if we submit an NDA for such product. It is not known at this time how later stage clinical trials will be conducted, if at all. Even if the data show that any of our products are safe and effective, obtaining approval of the NDA could take years and require financing of amounts not presently available to us. Conducting the clinical and preclinical studies of each of our products will require significant cash expenditures and we do not have the funds necessary to complete all phases of clinical trials for Squalamine and our sustained release ophthalmological platform or any other products. Our products may never be approved for commercial distribution by any country. Because our research and development expenses and clinical and preclinical study expenses will be charged against earnings for financial reporting purposes, we expect that losses from operations will continue to be incurred for the near future. We currently do not have sufficient funds to complete all phases of clinical and preclinical testing of any of our products which are required to permit the commercial sale of such products. If the results of our clinical and preclinical studies do not support our claims relating to any drug candidate or if serious side effects are identified, the completion of development of such drug candidate may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues. The results of our clinical and preclinical studies with respect to any drug candidate might not support our claims of safety or efficacy, the effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the drug candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. Further, success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. In addition, our clinical trials may involve a specific and small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of these early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. Adverse or inconclusive results may cause us to abandon a drug candidate and may delay development of other drug candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical and preclinical studies will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, significantly impair our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product revenues which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 If we find it difficult to enroll patients in our clinical trials, it will cause significant delays in the completion of such trials and may cause us to abandon one or more clinical trials. For the diseases or disorders that our product candidates are intended to treat, we expect only a subset of the patients with these diseases to be eligible for our clinical trials. Given that each of our product candidates is in the early stages of preclinical or clinical development, we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for each or all of our product candidates if we are unable to locate a sufficient number of eligible subjects to participate in the clinical trials required by the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements of our clinical testing mandate that a patient cannot be involved in another clinical trial for the same indication. We are aware that our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for products that are competitive with our product candidates and subjects who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may be involved in such testing, rendering them unavailable for testing of our product candidates. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any of our current or future clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. If our contract research organizations do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could be delayed. We are dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and independent investigators for preclinical testing, clinical trials and ISTs related to our drug discovery and development efforts, and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials and ISTs play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to achieve their research goals or otherwise meet their obligations on a timely basis could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices, and similar foreign standards, and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. If we are ever in a position to commercialize our product candidates, of which there can be no assurance, we have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities and no experience in building a sales force and distribution capabilities. If we are ever in a position to commercialize our product candidates, of which there can be no assurance, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. Building an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise and distribution capabilities will require significant expenditures, management resources and time. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products directly and without strategic partners include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. We may not be successful in recruiting the sales and marketing personnel necessary to sell our products and even if we do build a sales force, they may not be successful in marketing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 11 Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Our drug candidates will have to compete with existing therapies and therapies under development by our competitors. In addition, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of preclinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. Most of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, staff and facilities and have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: odeveloping drugs; oundertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; oobtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; oformulating and manufacturing drugs; and olaunching, marketing and selling drugs. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, acquisitions and joint ventures candidates and for other collaborations. Activities of our competitors may impose unanticipated costs on our business which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks associated with the SKS Acquisition could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the SKS Acquisition and harm our business generally. We recently completed the acquisition of the ophthalmology assets of SKS Ocular LLC and its affiliate, SKS Ocular 1 LLC (“SKS”). In the SKS Acquisition, we retained ten SKS employees and continued the SKS operations at the SKS research laboratory facility in San Diego, CA. The SKS Acquisition could lead to unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including: •Reallocation of management time and focus from operating core ophthalmology business to integration challenges related to the SKS Acquisition; •Implementation of controls, procedures, and policies at research laboratory facility in San Diego, CA; •Integration of the SKS’ accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product development functions; •Transition of SKS personnel into our existing platforms; •Challenges associated with integrating employees from SKS into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; •Liability for activities of the SKS before the SKS Acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and •Litigation or other claims in connection with SKS, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with the SKS Acquisition could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the SKS Acquisition and harm our business generally. Risks associated with the research collaboration with a large global pharmaceutical company. We entered into a research agreement with Alcon, a large global pharmaceutical company, in a glaucoma application using our sustained release platform; however, there can be no assurance that such collaboration will continue or that the research program will result in commercially useful products. We rely on confidentiality agreements that could be breached and may be difficult to enforce which could have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Our policy is to enter agreements relating to the non-disclosure of confidential information with third parties, including our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators, as well as agreements that purport to require the disclosure and assignment to us of the rights to the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions of our employees and consultants while we employ them. However, these agreements can be difficult and costly to enforce. Moreover, to the extent that our contractors, consultants, advisors and research collaborators apply or independently develop intellectual property in connection with any of our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to this type of information. If a dispute arises, a court may determine that the right belongs to a third party, and enforcement of our rights can be costly and unpredictable. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that we will seek to protect in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, consultants, advisors or others. Despite the protective measures we employ, we still face the risk that: •these agreements may be breached; •these agreements may not provide adequate remedies for the applicable type of breach; or •our trade secrets or proprietary know-how will otherwise become known. 12 Any breach of our confidentiality agreements or our failure to effectively enforce such agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and required to defend against litigation which could result in substantial costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have not received to date any claims of infringement by any third parties. However, as our product candidates progress into clinical trials and commercialization, if at all, our public profile and that of our product candidates may be raised and generate such claims. Defending against such claims, and occurrence of a judgment adverse to us, could result in unanticipated costs and may have a material adverse effect on our business and competitive position. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: •obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; •redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; •stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug candidates; •defend litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of management resources; or •pay damages. Any costs incurred in connection with such events or the inability to sell our products may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend upon key officers and consultants in a competitive market for skilled personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Irach Taraporewala, our Vice President of Business Development and CFO, Sam Backenroth, and our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Jason Slakter, as well as our directors. A loss of any of these personnel may have a material adverse effect on aspects of our business and clinical development and regulatory programs. We have employment agreements with Dr. Taraporewala and Mr. Backenroth and a consulting agreement with Dr. Slakter. Although these agreements include a non-competition covenant, the applicable noncompetition provisions can be difficult and costly to monitor and enforce. The loss of any of these persons’ services would adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We also depend in part on obtaining the service of scientific personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel, and the existence of non-competition agreements between prospective employees and their former employers may prevent us from hiring those individuals or subject us to suit from their former employers. While we attempt to provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain key personnel, many of our competitors are likely to have greater resources and more experience than we have, making it difficult for us to compete successfully for key personnel. Intellectual property litigation is increasingly common and increasingly expensive and may result in restrictions on our business and substantial costs, even if we prevail. Patent and other intellectual property litigation is becoming more common in the pharmaceutical industry. Litigation is sometimes necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patent rights, including those we have licensed from others, to protect trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of third parties. Currently, no third party is asserting that we are infringing upon their patent rights or other intellectual property, nor are we aware or believe that we are infringing upon any third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property. We may, however, be infringing upon a third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, and litigation asserting such claims might be initiated in which we would not prevail, or we would not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. All such litigation, whether meritorious or not, as well as litigation initiated by us against third parties, is time-consuming and very expensive to defend or prosecute and to resolve. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell our products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and prospects. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology we also claim, we may have to participate in interference proceedings required by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs, even if we ultimately prevail. Results of interference proceedings are highly unpredictable and may result in us having to try to obtain licenses in order to continue to develop or market certain of our drug products. 13 Any future acquisitions we make of companies or technologies may result in disruption to our business or distraction of our management, due to difficulties in assimilating acquired personnel and operations. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products which complement our biotech operations if appropriate opportunities arise. From time to time we engage in discussions and negotiations with companies regarding our acquiring or investing in such companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies, in the ordinary course of our business. We cannot be assured that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make such acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, we may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would be dilutive to our existing stockholders. However, we currently do not have any agreement to enter into any material investment or acquisition transaction. We may be unsuccessful in monetizing existing assets, acquiring additional assets or entering into joint development programs. We will continue to seek to acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products and plan to seek development partners for our existing products. We are currently in discussions and will continue to engage in discussions with third parties regarding the licensure, sale or acquisition of our products and technologies or a merger or sale of the Company; however, we currently do not have any agreement to enter into such a transaction, and there is no assurance that the Company will complete such a transaction. We plan to monetize OHR/AVR118, a non ophthalmology asset, through a license agreement, partnership, joint venture, or sale. However, we currently do not have any agreement to enter into an acquisition, investment, development, license, partnership, joint venture, or sale transaction, and there is no assurance that the Company will complete such a transaction. The market for our common stock is illiquid. Our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the purchase price paid by such stockholders, or at all. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The market for our securities is illiquid. This illiquidity may be caused by a variety of factors including: •lower trading volume; and •market conditions. There is limited trading in our common stock and our security holders may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our securities. Such price and volume fluctuations have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These price and volume fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These fluctuations may have an extremely negative effect on the market price of our securities and may prevent a stockholder from obtaining a market price equal to the purchase price such stockholder paid when the stockholder attempts to sell our securities in the open market. In these situations, the stockholder may be required either to sell our securities at a market price which is lower than the purchase price the stockholder paid, or to hold our securities for a longer period of time than planned. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock or to recruit and retain managers with equity-based incentive plans. We will not pay cash dividends and investors may have to sell their shares in order to realize their investment. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to use our cash for reinvestment in the development and marketing of our products and services. As a result, investors may have to sell their shares of common stock to realize their investment. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our results of operation could be harmed. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We continuously monitor our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems to confirm that they are compliant with Section 404, and we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadlines imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for our third fiscal quarter of 2014, we concluded that the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, were not effective in reaching the required level of reasonable assurance in achieving the desired control objectives, primarily due to lack of staff. To remediate this deficiency, we hired additional accounting personnel to improve the controls over our financial reporting process and to ensure the effectiveness of our disclosure controls for future filings. 14 As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to fair value accounting for non recurring items. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. We expect to experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor and consultant fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and divert management’s attention from operating our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There have been other changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in addition to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new regulations promulgated by the Commission and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we may incur additional expenses to comply with standards set by regulatory authorities or governing bodies which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Issuance of Serial Preferred Stock. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 9,444,444 shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $.0001 par value per share (the “Serial Preferred Stock”) (after giving effect to the conversion and cancellation of a previous issue of 5,555,556 shares of Series B Preferred), in one or more series and to fix the number of shares constituting any such series, the voting powers, designation, preferences and relative participation, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including the dividend rights and dividend rate, terms of redemption (including sinking fund provisions), redemption price or prices, conversion rights and liquidation preferences of the shares constituting any series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. 6,000,000 shares of the Serial Preferred Stock, designated the Series B Preferred, have been authorized, 5,555,556 were issued and, as of the date of this filing, all such shares have been converted and no Series B Preferred shares remain issued and outstanding. The issuance of additional Serial Preferred Stock could affect the rights of the holders of Common Stock. For example, such issuance could result in a class of securities outstanding that would have preferential voting, dividend, and liquidation rights over the Common Stock, and could (upon conversion or otherwise) enjoy all of the rights appurtenant to the shares of Common Stock. The authority possessed by the Board of Directors to issue Serial Preferred Stock could potentially be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of the Company through merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise by making such attempts more difficult or costly to achieve. The Board of Directors may issue the Serial Preferred Stock without stockholder approval and with voting and conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of holders of Common Stock. There are no agreements or understandings for the issuance of Serial Preferred Stock and the Board of Directors has no present intention to issue any Serial Preferred Stock. 15 