Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. Our common stock, and the U.S. securities markets in general, can experience significant price fluctuations. The market prices of securities of financial services companies, in particular, have been especially volatile. The price of our common stock could decrease substantially. Among the factors that may affect our stock price are the following: • speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, our competitive position, organizational structure, executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost reduction initiatives, or strategic transactions; • the announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by us or our competitors; and • increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, and variations between estimated financial results and actual financial results. Changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price. Because the market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly, we could become the object of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. We are restricted by the terms of our revolving credit facilities and senior notes. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities contain various negative covenants and restrictions that may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • sell all or substantially all of our assets; • change the nature of our business; • merge or consolidate with another entity; and • conduct transactions with affiliates. Under our revolving credit facilities, we are also required to maintain compliance with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio covenant (not to exceed 3.00:1.00) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant (not less than 4.00:1:00). TDAC is required to maintain compliance with a minimum consolidated tangible net worth covenant and our broker-dealer subsidiaries are required to maintain compliance with minimum regulatory net capital covenants. As a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in the revolving credit facilities and our senior unsecured notes, we are limited in how we conduct our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to remain in compliance with these covenants or be able to obtain waivers for noncompliance in the future. A failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition by impairing our ability to secure and maintain financing. Our corporate debt level may limit our ability to obtain additional financing. As of September 30, 2012, we had approximately $1.25 billion of long-term debt, consisting of $250 million of 2.950% Senior Notes with principal due in full on December 1, 2012, $500 million of 4.150% Senior Notes with principal due in full on December 1, 2014 and $500 million of 5.600% Senior Notes with principal due in full on December 1, 2019. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt repayment obligations, is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting 17 Table of Contents our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund our cash requirements. If we are unable to meet our cash requirements from operations, we would be required to obtain alternative financing. The degree to which we may be leveraged as a result of the indebtedness we have incurred could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures or could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of existing financing arrangements. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to adverse operating results, meet our debt repayment obligations or fund required capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected. Our business, financial position, and results of operations could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies. If our counterparty credit rating or the credit ratings of our outstanding indebtedness are downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. A downgrade would have the effect of increasing our incremental borrowing costs and could decrease the availability of funds for borrowing. In addition, a downgrade could adversely affect our relationships with our clients. TD and the Ricketts holders exercise significant influence over TD Ameritrade. As of September 30, 2012, TD and J. Joe Ricketts, our founder, members of his family and trusts held for their benefit (which we collectively refer to as the Ricketts holders), owned approximately 45% and 15%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, TD and the Ricketts holders have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. TD is permitted under a stockholders agreement to exercise voting rights only with respect to 45% of our outstanding shares of common stock until termination of the stockholders agreement (which will occur no later than January 24, 2016). There is no restriction on the ability of TD to vote its shares following the complete termination of the stockholders agreement. Under the stockholders agreement, if our stock repurchases cause TD’s ownership percentage to increase, TD is only permitted to own up to 48% of our outstanding common stock and has until January 24, 2014 to reduce its ownership to 45%, and the Ricketts holders are permitted under the stockholders agreement to own up to 29% of our outstanding common stock, with no restriction on the number of shares they may own following the termination of the stockholders agreement. As a result of their significant share ownership in TD Ameritrade, TD or the Ricketts holders may have the power, subject to applicable law, to significantly influence actions that might be favorable to TD or the Ricketts holders, but not necessarily favorable to our other stockholders. The stockholders agreement also provides that TD may designate five of the twelve members of our board of directors and the Ricketts holders may designate three of the twelve members of our board of directors, subject to adjustment based on their respective ownership positions in TD Ameritrade. As of September 30, 2012, based on their ownership positions, TD and the Ricketts holders may designate five and two of the twelve members of our board of directors, respectively. Accordingly, TD and the Ricketts holders are able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters that come before our board. The ownership position and governance rights of TD and the Ricketts holders could also discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning TD Ameritrade. As a result, our common stock could trade at prices that do not reflect a “takeover premium” to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as TD’s and the Ricketts holders’ combined ownership interest. 18 Table of Contents We have extensive relationships and business transactions with TD and some of its affiliates, which if terminated or adversely modified could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have extensive relationships and business transactions with TD and certain of its affiliates. The insured deposit account agreement between us and affiliates of TD provides a significant portion of our revenue. This agreement enables our clients to invest in an FDIC-insured deposit product without the need for the Company to establish the significant levels of capital that would be required to maintain our own bank charter. During fiscal 2012, net revenues related to this agreement accounted for approximately 31% of our net revenues. For fiscal year 2012, the average balance of client cash swept to our insured deposit account offering was $59.4 billion. The average yield earned on the insured deposit account balances was 130 basis points higher than the average net yield earned on segregated cash balances during fiscal 2012. The termination or adverse modification of this agreement without replacing it on comparable terms with a different counterparty, which may not be available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If this agreement was terminated or adversely modified and we elected to establish our own bank charter for purposes of offering an FDIC-insured deposit product, we would be required to establish and maintain significant levels of capital within a bank subsidiary. We would also be subject to various other risks associated with banking, including credit risk on loans and investments, liquidity risk associated with bank balance sheet management, operational risks associated with banking systems and infrastructure and additional regulatory requirements and supervision. Conflicts of interest may arise between TD Ameritrade and TD, which may be resolved in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and TD in areas relating to past, ongoing and future relationships, including corporate opportunities, potential acquisitions or financing transactions, sales or other dispositions by TD of its interests in TD Ameritrade and the exercise by TD of its influence over our management and affairs. Some of the directors on our board are persons who are also officers or directors of TD or its subsidiaries. Service as a director or officer of both TD Ameritrade and TD or its other subsidiaries could create conflicts of interest if such directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have materially different implications for us and for TD. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions relating to the avoidance of direct competition between us and TD. In addition, an independent committee of our board of directors reviews and approves or ratifies transactions with TD and its affiliates. We have not established any other formal procedures to resolve potential or actual conflicts of interest between us and TD. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing potential conflicts would be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the provisions of the stockholders agreement related to non-competition are subject to numerous exceptions and qualifications and may not prevent us and TD from competing with each other to some degree in the future. The terms of the stockholders agreement, our charter documents and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in the stockholders agreement among TD and the Ricketts holders, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law will make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by the requisite number of directors. These provisions include: • the presence of a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and • the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. These provisions could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our future ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. On October 26, 2010, we declared the first quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. Any future payment of dividends will depend on our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon a number of factors that the board of directors deems relevant, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, capital requirements, the general financial condition and future prospects of our business and general business conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is also dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to the parent company. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA and other regulators relating to liquidity, capital standards and the use of client funds and securities, which may limit funds available for the payment of dividends to the parent company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 