Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations. Although the risks described below are those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to be material also may materially affect our business, financial condition or future results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Operations Stock market volatility and other securities industry risks could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from our securities brokerage business. Like other securities brokerage businesses, we are directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. For example, events such as the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, the invasion of Iraq in 2003 and other events have resulted in substantial market volatility and reductions in trading volume and net revenues. In addition, any general economic downturn would adversely affect trading volumes and net revenues. Severe market fluctuations or weak economic conditions could reduce our trading volume and net revenues and adversely affect our profitability. We have exposure to interest rate risk. As a fundamental part of our brokerage business, we invest in interest-earning assets and are obligated on interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, we earn fees on our money market deposit account (MMDA) sweep arrangement with TD Bank USA, which are based on the actual net yield earned at TD Bank USA. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. 9 We have exposure to liquidity risk. Substantially all of our interest-earning assets are readily convertible to cash or subject to immediate repayment by our clients and broker-dealer counterparties. Our liquidity needs to support interest-earning assets are primarily met by client credit balances or financing created from our securities lending activities. A reduction of funds available from client credit balances or securities lending may require us to seek other potentially more expensive forms of financing, such as borrowings on our uncommitted lines of credit. Because our broker-dealer lines of credit are uncommitted, there can be no assurance that such financing would be available. We are exposed to credit risk with clients and counterparties. We make margin loans to clients collateralized by client securities and periodically borrow and lend securities to cover trades. A significant portion of our net revenues is derived from interest on margin loans. By permitting clients to purchase securities on margin, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit, especially during periods of rapidly declining markets in which the value of the collateral held by us could fall below the amount of a client’s indebtedness. To the extent that these margin loans exceed client cash balances maintained with us, we must obtain financing from third parties. We may not be able to obtain this financing on favorable terms or in sufficient amounts. In addition, in accordance with regulatory guidelines, we collateralize borrowings of securities by depositing cash or securities with lenders. Sharp changes in market values of substantial amounts of securities and the failure by parties to the borrowing transactions to honor their commitments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our clearing operations expose us to liability for errors in clearing functions. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Ameritrade, Inc. and NISC, provide clearing and execution services to our introducing broker-dealer subsidiary. Clearing and execution services include the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities transactions. Clearing brokers also assume direct responsibility for the possession and control of client securities and other assets and the clearance of client securities transactions. Self-clearing securities firms are subject to substantially more regulatory control and examination than brokers that rely on others to perform those functions. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of clients, could lead to civil penalties imposed by applicable authorities as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits brought by clients and others. Changes in payments for routing our clients’ orders could adversely affect our business. We have arrangements with several execution agents to receive cash payments in exchange for routing trade orders to these firms for execution. Competition between execution agents and the implementation of order handling rules and decimalization of stock prices have made it less profitable for execution agents to offer order flow payments to broker-dealers. On a per trade basis, our payment for order flow revenue has decreased significantly over the past several years. These payments could continue to decrease on a per trade basis, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The SEC could take action to prohibit payment for order flow, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Systems failures, delays and capacity constraints could harm our business. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels, including the Internet, wireless web, personal digital assistants and our interactive voice response system. These methods of trading are heavily dependent on the integrity of the electronic systems supporting them. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, distributed denial of service (“DDOS”) attacks, spurious spam attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Though all of our core computer systems and applications are fully redundant and distributed over two sites, it could take several hours or more to restore full functionality in the event of an unforeseen disaster. Extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. Extraordinary Internet traffic caused by DDOS or spam attacks could cause our Web site to be unavailable or slow to respond. While we have invested significant amounts to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems and added hardware to 10 address extraordinary Internet traffic, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary circumstances. We may not be able to project accurately the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business, or to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. Systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels of client service and client satisfaction, and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer: • a loss of clients or a reduction in the growth of our client base; • increased operating expenses; • financial losses; • additional litigation or other client claims; and • regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. Our networks and client information could be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our networks could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We, along with the online brokerage industry in general, have experienced increased losses during fiscal 2006 related to clients’ login and password information being compromised while using public computers. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or our clients’ confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We could be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We may not be able to implement security measures that will protect against all security risks. Because we provide a security guarantee under which we reimburse clients for losses resulting from unauthorized activity in their accounts, significant unauthorized activity could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The success of our business will depend on continued development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and amount of traffic. Our success will depend upon the ability of third parties to provide a reliable Internet infrastructure with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it and the performance or reliability of the Internet could suffer. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. The market for electronic brokerage services is continually evolving and intensely competitive. There has been substantial price competition, including various free trade offers, in the industry recently. We expect the competitive environment to continue in the future. We face direct competition from numerous retail brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., E*TRADE Financial Corporation, Fidelity Investments and Scottrade, Inc. We also encounter competition from the broker-dealer affiliates of established full-commission brokerage firms as well as from financial institutions, mutual fund sponsors and other organizations, some of which provide online brokerage services. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, offer a wider range of services and financial products, and have greater name recognition and a more extensive client base than we do. We believe that the general financial success of companies within the retail securities industry will continue to attract new competitors to the industry, such as banks, software development companies, insurance companies, providers of online financial information and others. These companies may provide a more comprehensive suite of services than we do. Increased competition, including pricing pressure, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 We will need to introduce new products and services to remain competitive. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. There are significant technical and financial risks in the development of new or enhanced products and services, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our services to emerging industry standards, or develop, introduce and market enhanced or new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Risk Factors Relating to the Regulatory Environment Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business. The SEC, NASD and various other regulatory agencies have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers. Net capital is a measure, defined by the SEC, of a broker-dealer’s readily available liquid assets, reduced by its total liabilities other than approved subordinated debt. All of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are required to comply with net capital requirements. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC could suspend or revoke our registration, or the NASD could expel us from membership, which could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or they could impose censures, fines or other sanctions. If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, then operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to maintain or expand our business. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. The securities industry is subject to extensive regulation and broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. The SEC, NASD and other self-regulatory organizations and state and foreign regulators can, among other things, censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders to, suspend or expel a broker-dealer or any of its officers or employees. While we neither actively solicit new accounts nor have established offices outside the United States, our websites are accessible world-wide over the Internet and we currently have account holders located outside the United States. These accounts make up approximately 1.5 percent of our accounts and are spread across many jurisdictions. Any adverse action by foreign regulators with respect to regulatory compliance by us in foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect our revenues from clients in such country or region. Various regulatory and enforcement agencies have been reviewing mutual fund trading, regulatory reporting obligations, best execution practices, client privacy, system security and safeguarding practices and advertising claims as they relate to the brokerage industry. These reviews could result in enforcement actions or new regulations, which could adversely affect our operations. In addition, we use the Internet as a major distribution channel to provide services to our clients. A number of regulatory agencies have adopted regulations regarding client privacy, system security and safeguarding practices and the use of client information by service providers. Additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet and safeguarding practices could be adopted in the future, including laws related to identity theft and regulations regarding the pricing, taxation, content and quality of products and services delivered over the Internet. Complying with these laws and regulations is expensive and time consuming and could limit our ability to use the Internet as a distribution channel. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business. We are subject to internal control requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the increased allocation of internal audit department resources, documentation of existing controls and implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. Control deficiencies have been identified from time to time, and we have undertaken actions to remediate them. 12 We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls, and to planning for and implementation of remedial efforts in those instances where remediation is indicated. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risk Factors Relating to Strategic Acquisitions and the Integration of Acquired Operations Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our business. We intend to pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses and technologies. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, services and products; • failure to achieve expected synergies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which could reduce future reported earnings; • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies; and • dilution to existing stockholders. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly consider, and from time to time engage in, discussions and negotiations regarding strategic transactions such as acquisitions, mergers and combinations within our industry. The purchase price for possible acquisitions could be paid in cash, through the issuance of common stock or other of our securities, borrowings or a combination of these methods. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to identify and to consummate strategic transactions and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction. For example, in many cases we begin negotiations that we subsequently decide to suspend or terminate for a variety of reasons. However, opportunities may arise from time to time that we will evaluate. Any transactions that we consummate would involve risks and uncertainties to us. These risks could cause the failure of any anticipated benefits of an acquisition to be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Although we expect benefits to result from the acquisition of TD Waterhouse, we may not fully realize those benefits because of remaining integration challenges. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the operations of Ameritrade and TD Waterhouse successfully or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of TD Waterhouse, including anticipated cost savings, could seriously harm our results of operations. Realizing the benefits of the acquisition of TD Waterhouse will depend in part on completing the integration of technology, operations and personnel. The integration of the companies is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The ongoing challenges in this integration include the following: • demonstrating to the clients of Ameritrade and to the clients of TD Waterhouse that the integration of TD Waterhouse will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping clients conduct business easily with the combined company; • consolidating and rationalizing technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate the capabilities of the combined company; 13 • integrating and rationalizing clearing platforms; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; and • combining the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. We may not successfully integrate the operations of Ameritrade and TD Waterhouse in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition of TD Waterhouse to the extent, or in the timeframe, forecasted. The anticipated benefits and synergies include cost savings associated with anticipated restructurings and other operational efficiencies, greater economies of scale and revenue enhancement opportunities. However, these anticipated benefits and synergies assume a successful integration and are based on projections, which are inherently uncertain, and other assumptions. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations or implement workforce reductions. Risk Factors Relating to Owning Our Stock The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Our common stock, and the U.S. securities markets in general, experience significant price fluctuations. The market prices of securities of Internet-related companies, in particular, have been especially volatile. The price of our common stock could decrease substantially. In addition, because the market price of our common stock tends to fluctuate significantly, we could become the object of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We are restricted by the terms of our senior credit facilities. We entered into a credit agreement, as amended, on January 23, 2006 for $2.2 billion in senior credit facilities with a syndicate of lenders. These credit facilities contain various covenants and restrictions that may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • sell assets and make capital expenditures; • pay dividends or make distributions; • repurchase our common stock; • make investments; • merge or consolidate with another entity; and • conduct transactions with affiliates. As a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in the credit facilities, we are limited in how we conduct our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to remain in compliance with these covenants or be able to obtain waivers for noncompliance in the future. Our corporate debt level may limit our ability to obtain additional financing. In connection with the payment of the special cash dividend of $6.00 per share and to fund working capital requirements after the acquisition of TD Waterhouse, we borrowed approximately $1.9 billion. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, is dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund these cash requirements, including our debt service obligations. If we are unable to meet our cash requirements from operations, we would be required to fund these cash requirements by alternative financing. The degree to which we 14 may be leveraged as a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with payment of the special dividend or otherwise could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures or could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in our industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of existing financing arrangements. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to adverse operating results, meet our debt service obligations, or fund required capital expenditures, could be materially and adversely affected. TD and the Ricketts holders exercise significant influence over TD AMERITRADE. As of September 29, 2006, TD and J. Joe Ricketts, our Chairman and Founder, members of his family and trusts held for their benefit, which we collectively refer to as the Ricketts holders, own approximately 39.6 percent and 20.4 percent of the outstanding voting securities of TD AMERITRADE, respectively. TD is permitted under the terms of a stockholders agreement to own up to 39.9 percent of the outstanding shares of TD AMERITRADE common stock during the three years following the January 24, 2006 closing of the transaction, up to 45 percent of the outstanding shares of TD AMERITRADE common stock for the remainder of the term of the stockholders agreement (a maximum of 10 years following the closing) and an unlimited number of shares of TD AMERITRADE following the termination of the stockholders agreement. The Ricketts holders are permitted under the terms of the stockholders agreement to own up to 29 percent of the outstanding shares of TD AMERITRADE. As a result, TD and the Ricketts holders generally have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of TD AMERITRADE stockholders. The stockholders agreement also provides that TD will designate five of the twelve members of the TD AMERITRADE board of directors and the Ricketts holders will designate three of the twelve members of the TD AMERITRADE board of directors, subject to adjustment based on their respective ownership positions in TD AMERITRADE. Accordingly, TD and the Ricketts holders generally will be able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters that come before the TD AMERITRADE board. As a result of their significant interest in TD AMERITRADE, TD or the Ricketts holders may have the power, subject to applicable law, to significantly influence actions that might be favorable to TD or the Ricketts holders, but not necessarily favorable to other TD AMERITRADE stockholders. In addition, the ownership position and governance rights of TD and the Ricketts holders could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning TD AMERITRADE. As a result, the common stock of TD AMERITRADE could trade at prices that do not reflect a “takeover premium” to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as TD’s and the Ricketts holders’ combined ownership interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between TD AMERITRADE and TD, which may be resolved in a manner that adversely affects TD AMERITRADE’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Conflicts of interest may arise between TD AMERITRADE and TD in areas relating to past, ongoing and future relationships, including corporate opportunities, potential acquisitions or financing transactions, sales or other dispositions by TD of its interests in TD AMERITRADE and the exercise by TD of its influence over the management and affairs of TD AMERITRADE. Some of the directors on the TD AMERITRADE board are persons who are also officers or directors of TD or its subsidiaries. Service as a director or officer of both TD AMERITRADE and TD or its other subsidiaries could create conflicts of interest if such directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have materially different implications for TD AMERITRADE and for TD. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions relating to the avoidance of direct competition between TD AMERITRADE and TD. The parties have not established any other formal procedures for TD AMERITRADE and TD to resolve potential or actual conflicts of interest between them. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing conflicts will be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of TD AMERITRADE. In addition, the provisions of the stockholders agreement related to non-competition are subject to numerous exceptions and qualifications and may not prevent TD AMERITRADE and TD from competing with each other to some degree in the future. 15 The terms of the stockholders agreement, our charter documents and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in the stockholders agreement among TD and the Ricketts holders, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law will make it difficult for any party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by the requisite number of directors. These provisions include: • the presence of a classified board of directors; • the ability of the board of directors to issue and determine the terms of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for inclusion of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings; and • the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law. These provisions could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that might provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 