ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry Regulations targeting specific sectors of the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. One segment of our business is the acquisition and development of specialty hospitals in which physicians own an interest. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a moratorium on the development of new specialty hospitals with physician ownership for a period of 18 months. Excluded from the moratorium were hospitals currently under development as determined in accordance with the CMS approval process. In December 2005, the Company completed the development of a specialty hospital in Houston, Texas, for an approximate cost of $33.2 million, which was approved by CMS as being exempt, or grandfathered, from the moratorium. Although the original moratorium expired in June 2005, CMS announced a suspension in processing of any new Medicare provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals in the same month. On February 1, 2006, Congress passed the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which, in Section 5006, included a statutory prohibition on CMS’s enrollment of new specialty hospitals in the Medicare program. The prohibition is intended to remain in place for six to eight months while HHS develops a report to Congress. Similar types of moratoriums or other further legislation or changes in the amount or structure of Medicare reimbursements could adversely affect our investments or acquisition opportunities in the segments of the healthcare industry affected by such legislation or governmental changes in the Medicare reimbursement structure. Reductions in reimbursement from third party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, could adversely affect the profitability of our tenants and hinder their ability to make rent payments to us. Sources of revenue for our tenants and operators may include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers and health maintenance organizations, among others. Efforts by such payors to reduce healthcare costs will likely continue, which may result in reductions or slower growth in reimbursement for certain services provided by some of our tenants. In addition, the failure of any of our tenants to comply with various laws and regulations could jeopardize their ability to continue participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored payment programs. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs. We believe that our tenants will continue to experience a shift away from fee-for-service payors resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement to managed care plans have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated, and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or failure to obtain licensure could result in the inability of our tenants to make lease payments to us. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated by federal, state and local governmental bodies. Our tenants generally will be subject to laws and regulations covering, among other things, licensure, certification for participation in government programs and 9 Table of Contents relationships with physicians and other referral sources. Changes in these laws and regulations could negatively affect the ability of our tenants to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Many of our medical properties and their tenants may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. Failure to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of healthcare facilities, by requiring a certificate of need or other similar approval. Our real estate investments are concentrated in specialty medical properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. As a REIT, we invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, we primarily acquire, selectively develop and manage specialty medical properties. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest primarily in specialty medical properties. A downturn in the real estate industry could significantly adversely affect the value of our properties. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or, more particularly, outside of specialty medical properties. Adverse trends in the healthcare industry may negatively affect our tenants’ ability to make lease payments and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The healthcare industry is currently experiencing, among other things: • changes in the demand for and methods of delivering healthcare services; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies; • significant unused capacity in certain areas, which has created substantial competition for patients among healthcare providers in those areas; • continuing pressure by private and governmental payors to reduce payments to providers of services; and • increased scrutiny of billing, referral and other practices by federal and state authorities. These and other factors may adversely affect the economic performance of some or all of our tenants and their ability to make lease payments. In turn, our lease revenues and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be negatively impacted. Our tenants are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant may jeopardize the tenant’s ability to make rent payments to us. There are various federal and state laws prohibiting fraudulent and abusive business practices by healthcare providers who participate in, receive payments from or are in a position to make referrals in connection with government-sponsored healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Our lease arrangements with certain tenants may also be subject to these fraud and abuse laws. These laws include: • the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare and Medicaid patients; • the Federal Physician Self-Referral Prohibition, which, subject to specific exceptions, restricts physicians who have financial relationships with healthcare providers from making referrals for specifically designated health services for which payment 10 Table of Contents may be made under Medicare or Medicaid programs to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship; • the False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government, including under the Medicare and Medicaid programs; and • the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to impose monetary penalties for certain fraudulent acts. Each of these laws includes criminal and/or civil penalties for violations that range from punitive sanctions, damage assessments, penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and Medicaid payments and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, certain laws, such as the False Claims Act, allow for individuals to bring qui tam (whistleblower) actions on behalf of the government for violations thereof. Imposition of any of these penalties upon one of our tenants or associated hospitals could jeopardize that tenant’s ability to operate or to make rent payments or affect the level of occupancy in our medical office buildings or healthcare-related facilities associated with that hospital, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business, Growth Strategy and Organizational Structure We may be unable to acquire or may be delayed in acquiring specialty medical properties. Our inability to acquire, or delays in acquiring, properties that are currently under contract or that we may seek to acquire in the future may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, if we do not complete acquisitions as expected, an offering of equity securities will have a significant dilutive impact on our issued and outstanding common and preferred shares until we are able to efficiently deploy the net proceeds from an offering of common or preferred shares. Dependence on our tenants for lease payments may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. As a REIT operating in the healthcare industry, we are not permitted by current tax law to operate or manage the businesses conducted in our facilities. Accordingly, we rely exclusively on lease payments from our tenants for cash with which to make distributions to shareholders. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants’ businesses. Reductions in the net operating income of our tenants may negatively impact the ability of our tenants to make lease payments and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply materially with the terms of a lease would give us the right to terminate our lease with that tenant, repossess the applicable property and enforce the payment obligations under the lease. However, we then would be required to find another tenant. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a suitable replacement tenant or that, if a suitable replacement tenant was found, we would be able to enter into a lease on favorable terms, or at all. As of December 31, 2005, we do not rely disproportionately on any one tenant for our rental income. Significant adverse changes in the operations of any property, or the operations or financial condition of any tenant, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to collect lease payments and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2023. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. 11 Table of Contents Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses. We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue to experience rapid growth in the future. During 2005, we acquired 42 buildings and started rental operations in two buildings the Company developed. We also are considering the acquisition of other properties. Our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In particular, we could have difficulty assimilating acquired properties and integrating their operations into our organization. Failure to effectively integrate newly acquired properties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Our rapid growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. Certain of our properties may not have efficient alternative uses. Some of our properties, such as our ambulatory surgery centers, are specialized medical facilities. If we or our tenants terminate the leases for these properties or our tenants lose their licenses or certificates of need to operate such properties, we may not be able to locate suitable replacement tenants to lease the properties for their specialized uses. Alternatively, we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt these properties to other uses. Any loss of revenues and/or additional capital expenditures occurring as a result could hinder our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully. We will compete for development opportunities and opportunities to purchase medical properties with, among others: • private investors; • healthcare providers, including physicians; • healthcare-related REITs; • real estate partnerships; • financial institutions; and • local developers. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have better relationships with lenders and sellers. Increased competition for medical properties from our competitors, including other REITs, may adversely affect our ability to acquire specialty medical properties and the price we pay for properties. If we are unable to acquire properties or if we pay too much for properties, our revenue and earnings growth could be adversely affected. Our properties face competition from other nearby facilities that provide services comparable to those offered at our facilities. Some of those facilities are owned by governmental agencies and supported by tax revenues, and others are owned by nonprofit corporations and may be supported to a large extent by endowments and charitable contributions. Those types of support are not available to tenants at our facilities. In addition, competing healthcare facilities located in the areas served by our facilities may provide health services that are not available at our facilities. From time to time, referral sources, including physicians and managed care organizations, may change their lists of healthcare facilities to which they refer patients, which could adversely affect our rental revenues. Our use of debt financing subjects us to significant risks, including refinancing risk and the risk of insufficient cash available for distribution. Our Articles of Amendment and Restatement of our Declaration of Trust, as amended and supplemented by our Articles Supplementary, which collectively we refer to as our Declaration of Trust, and other organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt we may incur. Debt, whether with recourse to us generally or only with respect to a particular property, creates risks. For 12 Table of Contents example, variable rate debt can reduce the cash available for distribution to shareholders in periods of rising interest rates. We intend to incur debt only when we believe it will enhance our risk-adjusted returns. However, we cannot assure you that our use of financial leverage will prove to be beneficial. At December 31, 2005, our secured indebtedness was approximately $425 million, including approximately $200.5 million of existing mortgage year-end indebtedness that we assumed in connection with the acquisition of the 42 buildings that we acquired during 2005. We may borrow additional amounts in the future, or we may issue corporate debt securities in public or private offerings. Some of these additional borrowings may be secured by our properties. In addition, in connection with debt-financing, we are subject to covenants that restrict our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the restrictive covenants and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our properties to foreclosure. In addition, payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate our properties, pay cumulative preferred dividends on our 7.5% Series A cumulative convertible preferred shares, which we refer to as our Series A preferred shares, or pay the distributions to our common shareholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. We anticipate that our debt will be a blend of long-term amortizing debt and variable rate non-amortizing debt, both payable in substantial balloon payments upon maturity. Therefore, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of properties, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. Additionally, under the terms of much of the debt that we have assumed, we may incur significant yield maintenance penalties if we choose to prepay the debt. Conflicts of interest could result in an executive officer or a trustee acting other than in our best interest. As described further below, certain executive officers and members of our board of trustees have conflicts of interest resulting from: • the formation transactions at the time of our initial public offering; • their duties to our shareholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership; and • allocation of their time between our business and affairs and their other business interests. Conflicts of interest resulting from certain transactions in connection with our initial public offering may lead to decisions that are not in our shareholders’ best interest. Three of our executive officers, Messrs. Klipsch, McCoin and Farrar, one of whom also serves as a trustee (Mr. Klipsch), and one trustee emeritus who is not an executive officer (Mr. Lanham) owned, directly or indirectly, 88.4% of the equity interests in Windrose International, LLC. At the time of completion of our initial public offering, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of Windrose International, including the stock of HADC, in exchange for an aggregate of 218,750 units of partnership interest in our operating partnership. Additionally, three of our executive officers, Messrs. Klipsch, McCoin and Batts, and Mr. Lanham, who serves as a trustee emeritus, owned approximately 45% of the Class A limited liability company interests in Brierbrook Partners. We acquired the Class A limited liability company interests in Brierbrook Partners owned by these officers and trustees in exchange for an aggregate of 72,582 units of partnership interest in our formation transactions. The terms and conditions of these purchases were not negotiated in arm’s length transactions. Additionally, certain of our trustees and executive officers have unrealized gains associated with their interests in these assets acquired by, or contributed to, our operating partnership at the time of our initial public offering, and, as a result, any sale of these assets or refinancing or prepayment of principal on the indebtedness assumed by us in purchasing these assets may cause adverse tax consequences to these trustees and executive officers. These individuals may not be supportive of the disposition or refinancing of these properties when it might otherwise be the optimal time for us to do so. Our trustees may have conflicting duties. Our trustees may have conflicting duties because, in their capacities as our trustees, they have a duty to us, and in our capacity as general partner of our operating partnership, they have a fiduciary duty to the limited partners of our operating partnership. Conflicts may arise when interests of our shareholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the limited partners, such as upon the sale of assets or the repayment of indebtedness. The partnership agreement of our operating partnership contains a provision requiring the general partner to resolve, to the extent possible, in favor of our shareholders, any matters in which there is a conflict 13 Table of Contents between the rights of the limited partners of the operating partnership and the rights of our shareholders. It may not always be possible, however, for a resolution to be reached which favors our shareholders. Our executive officers performing other activities may limit the amount of time available to be spent on our business. Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar are primarily focused on the management of our company. As a result of the management of other business interests, however, they may find it difficult to allocate the time necessary to manage our business. Mr. Klipsch, chairman of our board of trustees and our chief executive officer, also serves as the chairman of the board of directors of Klipsch Audio, Inc. Mr. Farrar, our president and chief operating officer, also serves as executive vice president of Klipsch Audio, Inc. Although Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar devote substantially all of their time to managing our company, as a result of their management obligations with this other company, Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar may find it difficult to allocate their time between this other company and us. If Messrs. Klipsch and Farrar do not allocate sufficient time to the management of our operations, it could jeopardize our ability to execute our business plan. Holders of our outstanding Series A preferred shares have dividend, liquidation, and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares. Our board of trustees has the authority to designate and issue preferred shares with liquidation, dividend and other rights that are senior to those of our common shares. As of December 31, 2005, 2,100,000 shares of our Series A preferred shares were issued and outstanding. The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding preferred shares is approximately $52.5 million (approximately $55.1 million if the stepped up liquidation preference set forth in our Articles Supplementary is applicable), and annual dividends on our outstanding preferred shares are approximately $3.9 million. Holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common shares. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common shares, holders of our preferred shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share ($26.25 per share if the stepped up liquidation preference set forth in our Articles Supplementary is applicable) with respect to our Series A preferred shares, plus any accrued and unpaid distributions. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common shares. In addition, holders of our preferred shares have the right to elect two additional trustees to our board of trustees whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. Provisions of Maryland law, our Declaration of Trust and our Bylaws may deter changes in management and third-party acquisition proposals or cause dilution. Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer persons during the last half of each taxable year (other than the first year for which an election to be a REIT has been made). To preserve our REIT qualification, our Declaration of Trust generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of more than 9.9% of the value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest or more than 9.9% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common shares of beneficial interest. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Any transfer of our shares that would violate the ownership limitation will be null and void, and the intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Instead, such shares will be designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective on the day before the purported transfer of such shares. The beneficiary of a trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our shares an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 9.9% in value of our shares. The Declaration of Trust contains a provision that creates staggered terms for our board of trustees. Our board of trustees is divided into three classes. The current terms of our Class I, Class II and Class III trustees will expire at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Upon the expiration of their current terms, trustees of each class are elected to serve for three-year terms and until their successors are duly elected and qualify. Each year one class of trustees will be elected by the shareholders at the annual meeting of shareholders. Moreover, such trustees generally may not be removed as trustees until the end of their terms except by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of trustees. The staggered terms of trustees may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer, a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common shares 14 Table of Contents might receive a premium for their common shares over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. The Maryland Business Combination Act may discourage a third-party from acquiring us. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, which we refer to as the MGCL, as applicable to REITs, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland REIT and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust’s shares, or an affiliate thereof, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the person or affiliate acquired at least ten percent of the voting power of the trust’s shares. Thereafter, any business combination must be approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their common shares above the then-current market price or which such shareholders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. Our board of trustees may issue additional shares that may cause dilution. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes the board of trustees, without shareholder approval, to: • amend the Declaration of Trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; • cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; and • classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of additional common shares or preferred shares that have preference rights over the common shares with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters. Future issuances of equity securities may cause our shareholders to experience further dilution. Our board of trustees may issue additional preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third-party from acquiring us. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes our board of trustees to issue up to 20,000,000 preferred shares and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. We issued 2,100,000 shares of our Series A preferred shares in June 2005. In addition, our Series A preferred shares may, in certain circumstances prior to June 30, 2010, have a stepped up liquidation preference that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their common shares. Although our board of trustees has no present intention to do so, it could establish one or more series of additional preferred shares that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their common shares over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. Our Declaration of Trust and Bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction in which holders of our common shares might receive a premium for their common shares over the then-current market price or which such holders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. Three of our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of our company, which could deter a change in control that could be beneficial to our shareholders. We have entered into agreements with Messrs. Klipsch, Farrar and Loftus, chairman of our board of trustees and chief executive officer, president, chief operating officer and treasurer and executive vice president, secretary and general counsel, respectively, which provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances following a change in control of our company. In addition, we entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Klipsch, Farrar and Loftus that provide additional severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances following a change in control of our company or if they are terminated other than for cause. These benefits and related tax indemnity could prevent or deter a change in control of our company that might involve a premium price for our common and preferred shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. 15 Table of Contents Our board of trustees may change our investment and operational policies without a vote of our shareholders. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, operations, debt limitation and distributions, are determined by our board of trustees. The board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our shareholders. Investment and operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. A significant number of our properties are located in two geographic locations, making us vulnerable to changes in economic conditions in that particular market. Although the Company had no tenant that leased more than 10% of its total rentable square footage, the Company does have a significant number of properties located in two geographic locations. Specifically, 23% and 10% of our rentable square footage is located in Southern Florida (in proximity to West Palm Beach, Florida) and in the Houston, Texas metropolitan area, respectively. Those two locations represented 21% and 10% of the Company’s total rental operations revenue as of December 31, 2005, respectively. As a result, localized adverse events or conditions, such as an economic recession or overbuilding in the local real estate market, could have a significant adverse effect on the operations of our properties, and ultimately on the amounts available for distribution to shareholders. We depend on key personnel, the loss of which may threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. We depend on the services of our existing senior management to carry out our business and investment strategies. If we were to lose any of our senior executive officers, particularly Messrs. Klipsch or Farrar, it may be more difficult to locate attractive acquisition targets or manage the properties that we acquire. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain qualified additional senior management. The loss of the services of any of our senior management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our board of trustees and management make decisions on our behalf, and shareholders have limited management rights. Our shareholders have no right or power to take part in our management except through the exercise of voting rights on certain specified matters. The board of trustees is responsible for our management and strategic business direction, and our management is responsible for our day-to-day operations. Certain policies of our board of trustees may not be consistent with the immediate best interests of our shareholders. Shares available for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares. Sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. As of December 31, 2005, there were 342,782 outstanding operating partnership units held by limited partners that are redeemable, at the election of the holder, for cash, or, at our election, for our common shares. As of December 31, 2005, there were 2,100,000 outstanding Series A preferred shares that are convertible at the election of the holder into 3,333,330 common shares. Upon the redemption of operating partnership units or conversion of our Series A preferred shares, any common shares received therefore may be sold in the public market pursuant to shelf registration statements that we have filed registering the underlying common shares or pursuant to any available exemption from registration. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had 544,366 outstanding options to purchase common shares. Upon exercise of these options, the common shares received therefore may be sold in the public market pursuant to a registration statement or pursuant to an available exemption from registration. 16 Table of Contents We also had 255,634 additional common shares reserved for issuance under our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2005. As of January 31, 2006, we can issue up to 4,085,674 common shares under our Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan. We are the sole general partner of our operating partnership and may become liable for the debts and other obligations of this partnership beyond the amount of our investment. We are the sole general partner of our operating partnership, Windrose Medical Properties, L.P., and, as of December 31, 2005, we owned an approximate 98.1% interest in the operating partnership. As the sole general partner, we are liable for our operating partnership’s debts and other obligations. If our operating partnership is unable to pay its debts and other obligations, as general partner, we will be liable for such debts and other obligations beyond the amount of our investment in our operating partnership. These obligations could include unforeseen contingent liabilities. The market value of our common shares could decrease based on our performance, market perception and condition and rising interest rates. The market value of our common shares may be based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and current and future cash dividends, and may be secondarily based upon the real estate market value of our underlying assets. The market price of our common shares is influenced by the dividend on our common shares relative to market interest rates. Rising interest rates may lead potential buyers of our common shares to expect a higher dividend rate, which would adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends. Tax-Related Risks Loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common shares. We have operated and intend to continue operating in a manner that will allow us to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax purposes under the Code, which will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding shares, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will continue to be successful in operating so as to maintain our REIT status. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause the board of trustees to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without shareholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to you because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify for statutory relief provisions, we would not be required to make distributions to shareholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common shares. 17 Table of Contents Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income, other than any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We have paid out and intend to continue paying out our income to our shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our shareholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Risks Relating to Real Estate Investments Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our medical properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions and development properties may under perform forecasted results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results, and we may not be able to make the distributions required to maintain our REIT status. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of additional properties and to selectively develop new properties. Acquisitions and development entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the cost of improvements necessary to develop and acquire properties will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We anticipate that acquisitions and development will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to grow could be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to shareholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions. Properties with limited operating history may not achieve forecasted results, which could hinder our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Newly-developed or newly-renovated properties do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make objective pricing decisions in acquiring these properties. The purchase prices of these properties are based upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of such properties, subjecting us to risks that such properties may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. 18 Table of Contents If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. We maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our properties. Insurance coverages on a property include liability and fire insurance and extended coverage insurance in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the property in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism that may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we can afford or deem prudent. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected property. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the property and the value of our investment. Capital expenditures for property renovation may be greater than forecasted and may adversely impact our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Properties, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Under the terms of our multi-tenant property leases, we generally are obligated to pay the cost of expenditures for items that are necessary for the continued operation of our properties and that are classified under generally accepted accounting principles as capital items. If these capital expenditures exceed our estimates, the additional costs could have an adverse effect on amounts available for distribution to shareholders. In addition, we may acquire properties in the future that require significant renovation. Renovation of properties involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from properties. All of our medical properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future and adversely affect our business. Our properties are subject to real and personal property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Our leases generally provide that the property taxes are charged to the tenants as an expense related to the properties that they occupy. As the owner of the properties, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. If we incur these tax liabilities, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Our financial performance and the price of our common shares will be affected by risks associated with the real estate industry. Factors that may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our operations include: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, medical office space, outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities, physician practice group clinics, ambulatory surgery centers and specialty hospitals and treatment centers; • attractiveness of our properties to physicians and other types of tenants; • competition from other medical office buildings, outpatient treatment facilities, physician practice group clinics, ambulatory surgery centers and specialty hospitals and treatment centers; and • as the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, compliance with which and any violation of which could materially adversely affect us. 19 Table of Contents Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on a current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our shareholders and could exceed the value of all of our properties. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our tenants to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, including medical waste generated by physicians and our other healthcare tenants, may adversely affect our tenants or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We have obtained Phase I environmental assessments on all of our properties to date and intend to do so with respect to any future properties we acquire. However, even if the Phase I environmental assessment reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is nonetheless possible that material environmental liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases covering our properties generally require the tenants to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, including the disposal of medical waste, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our tenants would be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exist today. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. While we believe that our properties are substantially in compliance with these requirements, a determination that we are not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, changes in governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of the properties, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may occur. If we were required to make substantial modifications at the properties to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases. We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As lessee under ground leases, we would be exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease. Risks Related to Development Development and construction risks could adversely affect our profitability. Although we currently are not developing any properties, we intend to continue developing new properties in the future. Our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for property that exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; 20 Table of Contents • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities; and • we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our shareholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. If our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire new properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. Any of these factors could result in our overpayment for a property and could adversely affect the amount of our distributions to shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 