Item 1A. Risk Factors We encourage you to read the risk factors below in connection with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our actual construction and development costs could exceed our forecast and our cash flow from construction and development projects may not be immediate, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase cash distributions. Our strategy contemplates significant expenditures for the development, construction or other acquisition of energy infrastructure assets. Increased demand for the steel used to fabricate the pipe needed for our construction projects and increased competition for labor has resulted in increased costs for these resources. Additionally, the construction of new assets involves numerous regulatory, environmental, legal, political and operational risks that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to complete our projects at the costs currently estimated or within the time periods we have projected. If we experience material cost overruns, we will have to finance these overruns using one or more of the following methods: • using cash from operations; • delaying other planned projects; • incurring additional indebtedness; or • issuing additional equity. Any or all of these methods may not be available when needed or may adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on our expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, if we build a new pipeline or expand an existing facility, the design, construction, development and installation may occur over an extended period of time and we may not receive any material increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the systems. If our revenues and cash flow do not increase at projected levels because of substantial unanticipated delays, or other factors, we may not meet our obligations as they become due and we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget, sell non-strategic assets, access the capital markets or reassess our level of distributions to unitholders to meet our capital requirements. Our ability to access the credit and capital markets on attractive terms to obtain funding for our capital projects may be limited due to the deterioration of these markets. We expect to make significant expenditures for the construction of additional crude oil transportation infrastructure over the next two years. Our ability to fund these expenditures is dependent on our ability to access the capital necessary to finance the construction of these facilities. Domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, weak and volatile and have contributed significantly to a substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risks have made, and likely will continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding for our capital needs from the credit and capital markets on terms similar to our recent capital-raising transactions. As a result, we may revise the timing and scope of these projects as necessary to adapt to existing markets and economic conditions. In particular, the cost of raising funds in the debt and equity capital markets has increased while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining funds from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Due to the recent downturn in the financial markets, including the issues surrounding the solvency of many financial institutions and the recent failure, combinations and announced combinations of several financial institutions, our ability to obtain capital from our Credit Facility may be impaired. For example, since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman") filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, Lehman Brothers Bank FSB ("Lehman BB"), a subsidiary of Lehman and a committed lender under our Credit Facility, has declined requests to honor its commitment to lend up to $82.5 million under our Credit Facility, effectively reducing the amount available to us under our Credit Facility to $1,167.5 million. We may be unable to use the full borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility if other lenders do not replace Lehman BB's funding commitment under the Credit Facility or if any of the remaining committed lenders is unable or unwilling to fund its portion of any funding request we make under our Credit Facility. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from the credit and capital markets if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our development plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions and construction projects, otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. A downgrade in our credit rating could require us to provide collateral for our hedging liabilities and negatively impact our borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) rate our non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured debt at “BBB” with a negative outlook and “Baa2” with a negative outlook, respectively. Although we are not aware of any current plans by S&P or Moody’s to lower their respective ratings on such debt, we cannot be assured that such credit ratings will not be downgraded. Currently, we are parties to certain International Swap and Derivative Association, Inc., or ISDA®, agreements associated with the derivative financial instruments we use to manage our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices. These ISDA® agreements require us to provide assurances of performance if our counterparties’ exposure to us exceeds certain levels or thresholds. We generally provide letters of credit to satisfy such requirements. At December 31, 2008, we were not required to provide any assurances of performance for our then outstanding derivative financial instruments. If our credit ratings had declined to BBB- for S&P or Baa3 for Moody’s, at December 31, 2008, we would have been required to provide letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $51.7 million to satisfy this requirement of our ISDA® agreements. The amount of any letters of credit we would have to establish under the terms of our ISDA® agreements would reduce the amount that we are able to borrow under our Credit Facility. We may not have sufficient cash flows to enable us to continue to pay distributions at the current level. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay distributions at the current level. The amount of cash we are able to distribute depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which can fluctuate quarterly based upon a number of factors. The amount of cash available for distribution also will depend on other factors, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the amount of cash reserves established by Enbridge Management; • our ability to access capital markets and borrow money; • our debt service requirements and restrictions in our credit agreements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and • the cost of acquisitions. In addition, unitholders should note that the amount of cash we distribute depends primarily on our cash flow rather than net income or net loss. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses or may make no distributions during periods when we record net income. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we incorrectly predict operating results, are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses or are unable to raise financing on acceptable terms. The acquisition of complementary energy delivery assets is a component of our strategy. Acquisitions present various risks and challenges, including: • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of the acquired operations or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring such operations; • a decrease in liquidity as a result of utilizing significant amounts of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance an acquisition; • the loss of critical customers or employees at the acquired business; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not fully and adequately indemnified; • the risk of failing to effectively integrate the operations or management of acquired assets or businesses or a significant delay in such integration; and • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations. In addition, we may be unable to identify acquisition targets and consummate acquisitions in the future or be unable to raise, on terms we find acceptable, any debt or equity financing that may be required for any such acquisition. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our pipeline systems are used less. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the volumes transported on our pipeline systems. Decreases in the volumes transported by our systems can directly and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The volume transported on our pipelines can be influenced by factors beyond our control including: • competition; • regulatory action; • weather conditions • storage levels; • alternative energy sources; • decreased demand; • fluctuations in energy commodity prices; • economic conditions; • supply disruptions; • availability of supply connected to our pipeline systems; and • availability and adequacy of infrastructure to move supply into and out of our systems. The volume of shipments on our Lakehead system depends heavily on the supplies of western Canadian crude oil. Insufficient supplies of western Canadian crude oil will adversely affect our business by limiting shipments on our Lakehead system. Decreases in conventional crude oil exploration and production activities in western Canada and other factors, including supply disruption, higher development costs and competition, can slow the rate of growth of our Lakehead system. The volume of crude oil that we transport on our Lakehead system also depends on the demand for crude oil in the Great Lakes and Midwest regions of the United States and the volumes of crude oil and refined products delivered by others into these regions and the Province of Ontario. Pipeline capacity for the delivery of crude oil to the Great Lakes and Midwest regions of the United States currently exceeds refining capacity. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, our ability to increase deliveries to expand our Lakehead system in the future depends on increased supplies of western Canadian crude oil. We expect that growth in future supplies of western Canadian crude oil will come from oil sands projects in Alberta, Canada. Full utilization of additional capacity as a result of our current and future expansions of our Lakehead system, including the Southern Access project, will largely depend on these anticipated increases in crude oil production from oil sands projects. A reduction in demand for crude oil or a decline in crude oil prices may make certain oil sands projects uneconomic since development costs for production of crude oil from oil sands is greater than development costs for production of conventional crude oil. Crude oil prices remain volatile and have declined significantly in recent months. Oil sands producers may cancel or delay plans to expand their facilities, as some oil sands producers have already done, if crude oil prices remain at current levels or decline further. Additionally, measures adopted by the government of the Province of Alberta to increase its share of revenues from oil sands development coupled with the decline in crude oil prices could reduce the volume growth we have anticipated in executing our construction projects to increase the capacity of our crude oil pipelines. The volume of shipments on natural gas and NGL systems depends on the supply of natural gas and NGLs available for shipment from the producing regions that supply these systems. Supply available for shipment can be affected by many factors, including commodity prices, weather and drilling activity. Volumes shipped on these systems also are affected by the demand for natural gas and NGLs in the markets these systems serve. Existing customers may not extend their contracts for a variety of reasons, including a decline in the availability of natural gas from our Mid-continent, U.S. Gulf Coast and East Texas producing regions, or if the cost of transporting natural gas from other producing regions through other pipelines into the markets served by the natural gas systems were to render the delivered cost of natural gas on our systems uneconomical. We may be unable to find additional customers to replace the lost demand or transportation fees. Competition may reduce our revenues. Our Lakehead system faces current, and potentially further competition for transporting western Canadian crude oil from other pipelines, which may reduce our revenues. Our Lakehead system competes with other crude oil and refined product pipelines and other methods of delivering crude oil and refined products to the refining centers of Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota; Chicago, Illinois; Detroit, Michigan; Toledo, Ohio; Buffalo, New York; and Sarnia, Ontario and the refinery market and pipeline hub located in the Patoka/Wood River area of southern Illinois. Refineries in the markets served by our Lakehead system compete with refineries in western Canada, the Province of Ontario and the Rocky Mountain region of the United States for supplies of western Canadian crude oil. Our Ozark pipeline system could face a significant increase in competition if a proposed new pipeline from Hardisty to Patoka is completed in 2009. However, if that situation occurs, we would consider potential alternative uses for our Ozark system. We also encounter competition in our natural gas gathering, treating, processing and transmission businesses. A number of new interstate natural gas transmission pipelines being constructed could reduce the revenue we derive from the interstate and intrastate transmission of natural gas. Many of the large wholesale customers served by our systems’ transmission and wholesale customer pipelines have multiple pipelines connected or adjacent to their facilities. Thus, many of these wholesale customers have the ability to purchase natural gas directly from a number of pipelines and/or from third parties that may hold capacity on other pipelines. Our Midla system has recently negotiated the renewal of a contract with one of its primary customers. Other systems such as our AlaTenn system face similar competition for customers. Likewise, most natural gas producers and owners have alternate gathering and processing facilities available to them. In addition, they have other alternatives, such as building their own gathering facilities or, in some cases, selling their natural gas supplies without processing. Some of our natural gas marketing competitors have greater financial resources and access to larger supplies of natural gas than those available to us, which could allow those competitors to price their services more aggressively than we do. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our gas marketing operations involve market and regulatory risks. As part of our natural gas marketing activities, we purchase natural gas at prices determined by prevailing market conditions. Following our purchase of natural gas, we generally resell natural gas at a higher price under a sales contract that is generally comparable in terms to our purchase contract, including any price escalation provisions. The profitability of our natural gas operations may be affected by the following factors: • our ability to negotiate on a timely basis natural gas purchase and sales agreements in changing markets; • reluctance of wholesale customers to enter into long-term purchase contracts; • consumers’ willingness to use other fuels when natural gas prices increase significantly; • timing of imbalance or volume discrepancy corrections and their impact on financial results; • the ability of our customers to make timely payment; • inability to match purchase and sale of natural gas on comparable terms; and • changes in, limitations upon or elimination of the regulatory authorization required for our wholesale sales of natural gas in interstate commerce. Our results may be adversely affected by commodity price volatility and risks associated with our hedging activities. The prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil are inherently volatile and we expect this volatility will continue. We buy and sell natural gas and NGLs in connection with our marketing activities. Our exposure to commodity price volatility is inherent to our natural gas and NGL purchase and resale activities, in addition to our natural gas processing activities. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to reduce our commodity price exposure, we may be prevented from realizing the full benefits of price increases above the level of the hedges. However, because we are not fully hedged, we will continue to have commodity price exposure on the unhedged portion of the fees we derive from the commodities we receive in-kind as payment for our gathering, processing, treating and transportation services. We are exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices on 20 to 40 percent of the natural gas and NGLs we expect to receive in the near term. As a result of this unhedged exposure, a substantial decline in the prices of these commodities could adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows. Our hedging activities can result in substantial losses if hedging arrangements are imperfect or ineffective and our hedging policies and procedures are not followed properly or do not work as intended. Further, hedging contracts are subject to the credit risk that the other party may prove unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under the contracts, particularly during periods of weak and volatile economic conditions. In addition, certain of the financial instruments we use to hedge our commodity risk exposures must be accounted for on a mark-to-market basis. This causes periodic earnings volatility due to fluctuations in commodity prices. Changes in, or challenges to, our rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The rates charged by several of our pipeline systems are regulated by the FERC or state regulatory agencies or both. If one of these regulatory agencies, on its own initiative or due to challenges by third parties, were to lower our tariff rates, the profitability of our pipeline businesses would suffer. If we were permitted to raise our tariff rates for a particular pipeline, there might be significant delay between the time the tariff rate increase is approved and the time that the rate increase actually goes into effect, which delay could further reduce our cash flow. Furthermore, competition from other pipeline systems may prevent us from raising our tariff rates even if regulatory agencies permit us to do so. The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services. Some producing states, including Oklahoma and Texas, 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements are considering legislation that would require rate and/or service regulation of gathering and intrastate transmission natural gas systems. Increased state regulation could adversely impact our natural gas systems. We believe that the rates we charge for transportation services on our interstate common carrier oil and open access natural gas pipelines are just and reasonable under the ICA and NGA, respectively. However, because the rates that we charge are subject to review upon an appropriately supported protest or complaint, or a regulator’s own initiative, we cannot predict what rates we will be allowed to charge in the future for service on our interstate common carrier oil and open access natural gas pipelines. Furthermore, because rates charged for transportation services must be competitive with those charged by other transporters, the rates set forth in our tariffs will be determined based on competitive factors in addition to regulatory considerations. Increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny may reduce our revenues Our interstate pipelines and certain activities of our intrastate natural gas pipelines are subject to FERC regulation of terms and conditions of service. In the case of interstate natural gas pipelines, FERC also establishes requirements respecting the construction and abandonment of pipeline facilities. FERC has pending proposals to increase posting and other compliance requirements applicable to natural gas markets, and in 2008, has continued to step up its enforcement efforts. The new political administration is focused on energy policy and has the authority to name new FERC commissioners, including a Chairman, to reflect a Democratic majority. Such changes could prompt an increase in FERC regulatory oversight of our pipelines and additional legislation that could increase our FERC regulatory compliance costs and decrease the net income generated by our pipeline systems. Compliance with environmental and operational safety regulations may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our pipeline, gathering, processing and trucking operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational and worker safety. Numerous governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with the laws and regulations they administer and permits they issue, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and operating permits can result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. Our operation of liquid petroleum and natural gas gathering, processing, treating and transportation facilities exposes us to the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities. Additionally, operational modifications necessary to comply with regulatory requirements and resulting from our handling of liquid petroleum and natural gas, historical environmental contamination, accidental releases or upsets, regulatory enforcement, litigation or safety and health incidents can also result in significant cost. We may incur joint and several strict liability under these environmental laws and regulations in connection with discharges or releases of liquid petroleum and natural gas and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities, many of which have been used for gathering or processing activities for a number of years, oftentimes by third parties not under our control. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our gathering systems pass and facilities where our liquid petroleum and natural gas or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may also incur costs in the future due to changes in environmental and safety laws and regulations, or re-interpretations of enforcement policies or claims for personal, property or environmental damage. We may not be able to recover these costs from insurance or through higher rates. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. Canada is one of many foreign nations participating in the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The treaty requires Canada to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 6% below 1990 levels by 2012. While the United States is not a signatory to the Kyoto Protocol, its Congress has been actively 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the development of greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. In addition, more than one-third of the states already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Further, on April 2, 2007, the United States Supreme Court in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, held that carbon dioxide may be regulated as and “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act. In July 2008, the EPA released an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act and other potential methods of regulating greenhouse gases. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulation that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows, in addition to the demand for our services. Pipeline operations involve numerous risks that may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Operation of complex pipeline systems, gathering, treating, processing and trucking operations involves many risks, hazards and uncertainties. These events include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of the facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These types of catastrophic events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, any of which could also result in substantial losses for which we may bear a part or all of the cost. For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential communities, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering locations, the level of damage resulting from these catastrophic events could be greater. Measurement adjustments on our pipeline system can be materially impacted by changes in estimation, commodity prices and other factors. Oil measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operations associated with our liquid petroleum pipelines. The three types of oil measurement adjustments that routinely occur on our systems include: • Physical, which result from evaporation, shrinkage, differences in measurement between receipt and delivery locations and other operational incidents; • Degradation, which result from mixing at the interface between higher quality light crude oil and lower quality heavy crude oil in pipelines; and • Revaluation, which are a function of crude oil prices, the level of our carriers inventory and the inventory positions of customers. Quantifying oil measurement adjustments is inherently difficult because physical measurements of volumes are not practical as products continuously move through our pipelines and virtually all of our pipeline systems are located underground. In our case, measuring and quantifying oil measurement losses is especially difficult because of the length of our pipeline systems and the number of different grades of crude oil and types of crude oil products we carry. Accordingly, we utilize engineering-based models and operational assumptions to estimate product volumes in our system and associated oil measurement losses. Natural gas measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our natural gas pipelines. The quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments is complicated by several factors including: (1) the significant quantities (i.e., thousands) of measurement meters that we use throughout our natural gas systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (2) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed through our systems; and (3) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies. Each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that can occur on our natural gas systems. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are exposed to credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Some of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant affect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. The market capitalizations of many of our customers have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of our customers’ liquidity and limit their ability to make payment or perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets, reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could reduce our revenues. RISKS ARISING FROM OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR GENERAL PARTNER AND ENBRIDGE MANAGEMENT The interests of Enbridge may differ from our interests and the interests of our security holders, and the board of directors of Enbridge Management may consider the interests of all parties to a conflict, not just the interests of our security holders, in making important business decisions. Enbridge indirectly owns all of the shares of our general partner and all of the voting shares of Enbridge Management, and elects all of the directors of both companies. Furthermore, some of the directors and officers of our general partners and Enbridge Management are also directors and officers of Enbridge. Consequently, conflicts of interest could arise between our unitholders and Enbridge. Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders. These restrictions allow our general partner to resolve conflicts of interest by considering the interests of all of the parties to the conflict, including Enbridge Management’s interests, our interests and those of our general partner. In addition, these limitations reduce the rights of our unitholders under our partnership agreement to sue our general partner or Enbridge Management, its delegate, should its directors or officers act in a way that, were it not for these limitations of liability, would constitute breaches of their fiduciary duties. We do not have any employees. In managing our business and affairs, we rely on employees of Enbridge, and its affiliates, who act on behalf of and as agents for us. A decrease in the availability of employees from Enbridge could adversely affect us. Our partnership agreement and the delegation of control agreement limit the fiduciary duties that Enbridge Management and our general partner owe to our unitholders and restrict the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by Enbridge Management and our general partner that might otherwise constitute a breach of a fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify the fiduciary duties that our general partner would otherwise owe to our unitholders under state fiduciary duty law. Through the delegation of control agreement, these modified fiduciary duties also apply to Enbridge Management as the delegate of our general partner. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions, including the determination of which factors it will consider in resolving conflicts of interest, in its “sole discretion.” This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any unitholder; 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • provides that any standard of care and duty imposed on our general partner will be modified, waived or limited as required to permit our general partner to act under our partnership agreement and to make any decision pursuant to the authority prescribed in our partnership agreement, so long as such action is reasonably believed by the general partner to be in our best interests; and • provides that our general partner and its directors and officers will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any acts or omissions if they acted in good faith. These and similar provisions in our partnership agreement may restrict the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by Enbridge Management or our general partner that might otherwise constitute a breach of a fiduciary duty. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among Enbridge and its shareholders, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders and Enbridge Management and its shareholders, on the other hand. Because the fiduciary duties of the directors of our general partner and Enbridge Management have been modified, the directors may be permitted to make decisions that benefit Enbridge and its shareholders or Enbridge Management and its shareholders more than us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise from time to time among Enbridge and its shareholders, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders and Enbridge Management and its shareholders, on the other hand. Conflicts of interest may also arise from time to time between us and our unitholders, on the one hand, and Enbridge Management and its shareholders, on the other hand. In managing and controlling us as the delegate of our general partner, Enbridge Management may consider the interests of all parties to a conflict and may resolve those conflicts by making decisions that benefit Enbridge and its shareholders or Enbridge Management and its shareholders more than us and our unitholders. The following decisions, among others, could involve conflicts of interest: • whether we or Enbridge will pursue certain acquisitions or other business opportunities; • whether we will issue additional units or other equity securities or whether we will purchase outstanding units; • whether Enbridge Management will issue additional shares; • the amount of payments to Enbridge and its affiliates for any services rendered for our benefit; • the amount of costs that are reimbursable to Enbridge Management or Enbridge and its affiliates by us; • the enforcement of obligations owed to us by Enbridge Management, our general partner or Enbridge, including obligations regarding competition between Enbridge and us; and • the retention of separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us and Enbridge Management. In these and similar situations, any decision by Enbridge Management may benefit one group more than another, and in making such decisions, Enbridge Management may consider the interests of all groups, as well as other factors, in deciding whether to take a particular course of action. In other situations, Enbridge may take certain actions, including engaging in businesses that compete with us, that are adverse to us and our unitholders. For example, although Enbridge and its subsidiaries are generally restricted from engaging in any business that is in direct material competition with our businesses, that restriction is subject to the following significant exceptions: • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not restricted from continuing to engage in businesses, including the normal development of such businesses, in which they were engaged at the time of our initial public offering in December 1991; • such restriction is limited geographically only to those routes and products for which we provided transportation at the time of our initial public offering; 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with us as part of a larger acquisition, so long as the majority of the value of the business or assets acquired, in Enbridge’s reasonable judgment, is not attributable to the competitive business; and • Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not prohibited from acquiring any business that materially and directly competes with us if that business is first offered for acquisition to us and the board of directors of Enbridge Management and our unitholders determine not to pursue the acquisition. Since we were not engaged in any aspect of the natural gas business at the time of our initial public offering, Enbridge and its subsidiaries are not restricted from competing with us in any aspect of the natural gas business. In addition, Enbridge and its subsidiaries would be permitted to transport crude oil and liquid petroleum over routes that are not the same as our Lakehead system, even if such transportation is in direct material competition with our business. These exceptions also expressly permitted the reversal by Enbridge in 1999 of one of its pipelines that extends from Sarnia, Ontario to Montreal, Quebec. As a result of this reversal, Enbridge competes with us to supply crude oil to the Ontario, Canada market. We can issue additional common or other classes of units, including additional i-units to Enbridge Management when it issues additional shares, which would dilute your ownership interest. The issuance of additional common or other classes of units by us, including the issuance of additional i-units to Enbridge Management when it issues additional shares and the issuance of additional Class C units, may have the following effects: • the amount available for distributions on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting power of each previously outstanding unit may decrease; and • the market price of the Class A common units may decline. Additionally, the public sale by our general partner of a significant portion of the Class B common units or Class C units that it currently owns could reduce the market price of the Class A common units. Our partnership agreement allows the general partner to cause us to register for public sale any units held by the general partner or its affiliates. A public or private sale of the Class B common units or Class C units currently held by our general partner could absorb some of the trading market demand for the outstanding Class A common units. The Class A common units issuable upon conversion of our Class C units may be sold in the public or private markets, which could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our Class A common units. As of February 19, 2009, we had approximately 20,313,522 Class C units outstanding, which will convert into Class A common units on a one-for-one basis on August 15, 2009, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The sale of any of these Class A common units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our Class A common units. Holders of our limited partner interests have limited voting rights Our unitholders have limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, which may have a negative effect on the price at which our common units trade. In particular, the unitholders did not elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner or Enbridge Management and have no rights to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner or Enbridge Management on an annual or other continuing basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are not satisfied with the performance of our general partner, they may find it difficult to remove our general partner. Under the provisions of our partnership agreement, our general partner may be removed upon the vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding common units and Class C units voting together as a class (excluding the units held by the general partner and its affiliates) and a majority of the outstanding i-units voting together as a separate class (excluding the number of i-units corresponding to the number of shares of Enbridge Management held by our general partner and its affiliates). Such removal must, 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements however, provide for the election and succession of a new general partner, who may be required to purchase the departing general partner interest in us in order to become the successor general partner. Such restrictions may limit the flexibility of the limited partners in removing our general partner, and removal may also result in the general partner interest in us held by the departing general partner being converted into Class A Common Units. We are a holding company and depend entirely on our operating subsidiaries’ distributions to service our debt obligations. We are a holding company with no material operations. If we cannot receive cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations. Our operating subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions, which could further limit each operating subsidiary’s ability to make distributions to us. The debt securities we issue and any guarantees issued by any of our subsidiaries that are guarantors will be structurally subordinated to the claims of the creditors of any of our operating subsidiaries who are not guarantors of the debt securities. Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our operating subsidiaries who have not guaranteed the debt securities. The claims to the assets of these non-guarantor operating subsidiaries derive from our own ownership interest in those operating subsidiaries. Claims of our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries’ creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of such operating subsidiaries over our own ownership interest claims and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including the debt securities. Our non-guarantor operating subsidiaries’ creditors may include: • general creditors; • trade creditors; • secured creditors; • taxing authorities; and • creditors holding guarantees. Enbridge Management’s discretion in establishing our cash reserves gives it the ability to reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Enbridge Management may establish cash reserves for us that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating and capital expenditures, provide for the proper conduct of business, and comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our holders of common units. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT AND OUR ABILITY TO MAKE DISTRIBUTIONS Agreements relating to our debt restrict our ability to make distributions, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Common Units, and our ability to incur additional debt and otherwise maintain financial and operating flexibility. Our most significant operating subsidiary is restricted by its First Mortgage Notes from making distributions to us, other than in additional partnership interests in it, unless (1) the distribution is in cash, (2) the distribution amount does not exceed the current available cash of that subsidiary, (3) a default does not exist under the First Mortgage Notes immediately after giving effect to the distribution and (4) timely notice of the distribution has been give to the holders of the First Mortgage Notes. In addition, we are prohibited from making distributions to our unitholders during (1) the existence of certain defaults under our Credit Facility or (2) during a period in which we have elected to defer interest payments on the Junior Notes, subject to limited exceptions as set forth in the related indenture. Further, the agreements governing our Credit Facility and our subsidiary’s First Mortgage Notes may prevent us from engaging in transactions or capitalizing on business opportunities that we believe could be beneficial to us by requiring us to comply with various covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on: • incurring additional debt; 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • entering into mergers or consolidations or sales of assets; and • granting liens. Although the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our ability to incur additional debt, they impose restrictions on our ability to enter into mergers or consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets, to incur liens to secure debt and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. A breach of any restriction under our credit facility or our indentures or our subsidiary’s First Mortgage Notes could permit the holders of the related debt to declare all amounts outstanding under those agreements immediately due and payable and, in the case of our Credit Facility, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new indebtedness incurred by us or our subsidiaries could have similar or greater restrictions. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS We may be classified as an association taxable as a corporation rather than as a partnership, which would substantially reduce the value of our Class A common units. We could be treated as a corporation for United States income tax purposes. Our treatment as a corporation would substantially reduce the cash distributions on the common units that we distribute quarterly. Moreover, treatment of us as a corporation could materially and adversely affect our ability to make payments on our debt securities. The anticipated benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on the treatment of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Under current law, we are treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and do not pay any federal income tax at the entity level. In order to qualify for this treatment, we must derive more than 90% of our annual gross income from specified investments and activities. While we believe that we currently do qualify and intend to meet this income requirement, we may not find it possible, regardless of our efforts, to meet this income requirement or may inadvertently fail to meet this income requirement. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes without regard to our sources of income or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. If we were to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would pay state income taxes at varying rates. Under current law, distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed as a corporate distribution. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to a unitholder would be substantially reduced. Treatment of us as a corporation would cause a substantial reduction in the value of our units. In addition, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation similar to recent tax legislation in Texas and Michigan. State tax legislation resulting in the imposition of a partnership-level income tax on us could reduce the cash distributions we make on the Class A and B common units and the number of i-units and Class C units that we will distribute quarterly. The enactment of significant legislation imposing partnership-level income taxes could cause a reduction in the value of our Class A common units. If the Internal Revenue Service does not respect our curative tax allocations, the after-tax return to our unitholders on their investment in our Class A common units would be adversely affected. Our partnership agreement allows curative allocations of income, deduction, gain and loss by us to account for differences between the tax basis and fair market value of property at the time the property is contributed or deemed contributed to us and to account for differences between the fair market value and book basis of our assets existing at the time of issuance of any Class A common units. If the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, does not respect our curative allocations, ratios of taxable income to cash distributions received by the holders of Class A common units will be materially higher than previously estimated. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The tax liability of our unitholders could exceed their distributions or proceeds from sales of Class A common units. The holders of our Class A common units will be required to pay United States federal income tax and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, even if they do not receive cash distributions from us. They will not necessarily receive cash distributions equal to the tax on their allocable share of our taxable income. Further, if we have a large amount of nonrecourse liabilities, they may incur a tax liability that is greater than the money they receive when they sell their Class A common units. A unitholder may be required to file tax returns with and pay income taxes to the states where we or our subsidiaries own property and conduct business. In some cases, a unitholder may be required to file income tax returns with and pay income taxes to the states in which we or our subsidiaries own property and conduct business, which are currently Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin. In the future, we may acquire property or do business in other states or in foreign jurisdictions. In addition to tax liabilities to such state and foreign jurisdictions, the owner of a Class A common unit may also incur tax and filing responsibilities to localities within such jurisdictions. Ownership of Class A common units raises issues for tax-exempt entities and other investors. An investment in our Class A common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts, Keogh plans and other retirement plans, regulated investment companies and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. Virtually all of the income derived from our Class A common units by a tax-exempt entity will be “unrelated business taxable income” and will be taxable to the tax-exempt entity. Further, a unitholder who is a nonresident alien, a foreign corporation or other foreign person will be required to file a federal income tax return and pay tax on his share of our taxable income because he will be regarded as being engaged in a trade or business in the United States as a result of his ownership of a Class A common unit. Our registration with the Secretary of the Treasury as a “tax shelter” may increase your risk of an IRS audit. Because we are a registered “tax shelter” with the Secretary of the Treasury, a unitholder may face an increased risk of an IRS audit resulting in taxes payable on our income as well as income not related to us. We could be audited by the IRS and adjustments to our income or losses could be made. Any unitholder owning less than a 1% profit interest in us has very limited rights to participate in the income tax and audit process. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns will lead to adjustments in the unitholders’ tax returns and may lead to audits of unitholders’ tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. Each unitholder is responsible for any tax owed as the result of an examination of their personal tax return. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Class A Common Units. When we issue additional Class A Common Units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, subsequent purchasers of Class A Common Units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of Class A Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Class A Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We treat each purchaser of Class A Common Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual Class A Common Units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could result in a unitholder owing more tax and may adversely affect the value of the Class A Common Units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our Class A Common Units, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization positions that are inconsistent with existing Treasury regulations. These positions may result in an understatement of deductions and losses and an overstatement of income and gain to our unitholders. For example, we do not amortize certain goodwill assets, the value of which has been attributed to certain of our outstanding Class A Common Units. A subsequent holder of those Class A Common Units is entitled to an amortization deduction attributable to that goodwill under Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b). However, because we cannot identify these Class A Common Units once they are traded by the initial holder, we do not give any subsequent holder of a Class A Common Unit any such amortization deduction. This approach understates deductions available to those unitholders who own those Class A Common Units and results in a reduction in the tax basis of those Class A Common Units by the amount of the deductions that were allowable but were not taken. The IRS may challenge the manner in which we calculate our unitholder’s basis adjustment under Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b). If so, because neither we nor a unitholder can identify the Class A Common Units to which this issue relates once the initial holder has traded them, the IRS may assert adjustments to all unitholders selling Class A Common Units within the period under audit as if all unitholders owned Class A Common Units with respect to which allowable deductions were not taken. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to this position or other positions we may take could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the gain from a unitholder’s sale of Class A Common Units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Class A Common Units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 