Risk Factors” contained in Part I, Item 1A of the Partnership’s 10-K, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. The value of the quarterly distribution of an additional fractional share may be less than the quarterly distribution of cash that the Partnership’s common unitholders will receive per common unit. The fraction of an Enbridge share to be issued per share outstanding with each quarterly distribution is based on the average closing price of our Listed Shares for the ten consecutive trading days preceding the ex-dividend date for our shares. Because the market price of our Listed Shares may vary substantially over time, the market value on the date you receive a distribution of additional shares may vary substantially from the cash you would have received had you owned common units of the Partnership instead of our shares. The Partnership may issue additional common or other classes of units, and we may issue additional shares, which would dilute your ownership interest. The issuance of additional common or other classes of units by the Partnership or shares by us, other than our quarterly distributions to you, may have the following effects: · the amount available for distributions on each share may decrease; · the relative voting power of each previously outstanding share may decrease; and · the market price of the Listed Shares may decline. Additionally, the public sale by the General Partner of a significant portion of the 3,912,750 Class B common units that it currently owns could reduce the market price of the Class A common units and, indirectly, our shares. The Partnership’s partnership agreement allows the General Partner to cause the Partnership to register for public sale any units held by the General Partner or its affiliates. A public sale of the Class B common units currently held by the General Partner could absorb some of the trading market demand for the outstanding Class A common units, which indirectly could reduce the market price of our shares. In addition, the General Partner may sell its Class B common units in private transactions at any time, which could have a similar effect on the market for the outstanding Class A common units and, indirectly, the shares. 5 Because our only assets are the Partnership’s i-units that we own, our financial condition and results of operations depend solely upon the performance of the Partnership. We are a limited partner of the Partnership and our only asset is the Partnership’s i-units that we own. If the Partnership decreases the cash distributions it pays to common unitholders, the value of distributions of shares to holders of our shares will decrease as well. Furthermore, we may establish cash reserves at the Partnership that in our reasonable discretion are necessary to fund the Partnership’s future operating and capital expenditures, provide for the proper conduct of business, comply with applicable laws or agreements to which the Partnership is a party, or provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves affect the amount of cash available for distribution to holders of the Partnership’s common units and, consequently, the distributions on your shares. Shares are subject to purchase provisions that could result in your having to sell your shares at a time or price that may be unfavorable to you. If Enbridge exercises any of its rights to purchase our shares, you will be required to sell your shares at a time or price that may be undesirable, and you could receive less than you paid for your shares. Any sale of our shares to Enbridge or otherwise for cash will be a taxable transaction to the owner of the shares sold. Accordingly, a gain or loss will be recognized on the sale equal to the difference between the cash received and the owner’s tax basis in the shares sold. If we are not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities we incur in managing the business and affairs of the Partnership, we may be unable to pay those liabilities and the value of our shares could decline. Under the delegation of control agreement, we have been delegated management of the Partnership and its operating subsidiaries. To the extent we incur liabilities or other obligations in connection with our performance under the delegation of control agreement, we are entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by the Partnership to the same extent as the General Partner under the Partnership’s partnership agreement. In the event the Partnership and the General Partner are either unwilling or unable to reimburse or indemnify us, we likely will be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations. Additionally, our right to reimbursement or indemnification is limited under certain circumstances, including if we act in bad faith or if we violate laws, like the U.S. federal securities laws, where indemnification may be against public policy. The shares you own are not entitled to vote to elect our directors, and, therefore, you will have little or no opportunity to influence or change our management. You have little or no opportunity to influence or change our management, because the General Partner owns all of our voting shares eligible to vote in the election of our directors. The General Partner has delegated to us substantially all of its rights and powers to manage the business and affairs of the Partnership, subject to the General Partner’s right to approve specified actions. Furthermore, if a person or group owns 20% or more of the aggregate number of issued and outstanding common units and our shares, that person or group may not vote its shares. This limitation does not apply to Enbridge and its affiliates. If in the future we cease to manage the business and affairs of the Partnership, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage the Partnership’s business and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under 6 the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC, or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with our affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The interests of Enbridge may differ from our interests, the interests of our shareholders and the interests of limited partners of the Partnership. Enbridge indirectly owns 100% of the General Partner and elects all of its directors. The General Partner owns all of our voting shares and elects all of our directors. Furthermore, some of the Partnership’s directors and officers are also directors and officers of Enbridge. Consequently, conflicts of interest could arise between the Partnership’s unitholders and Enbridge. Our limited liability company agreement and the Partnership’s partnership agreement limit the fiduciary duties of our board of directors and the Partnership to our shareholders and the Partnership’s unitholders. These restrictions allow our board of directors and the General Partner to resolve conflicts of interest by considering the interests of all the parties to the conflict, including our interests, the interests of the Partnership and the interests of the General Partner. Additionally, these limitations reduce the rights of our shareholders and the rights of the Partnership’s unitholders under the Partnership’s partnership agreement to sue our board of directors and the board of directors of the General Partner should they act in a way that, were it not for these limitations of liability, would constitute a breach of their fiduciary duties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 