D. Risk Factors In addition to other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. The management of the Company have identified the following risk factors, listed in the view of management in order from most significant to least significant: We have incurred net losses since our inception and expect losses to continue. We have not been profitable since our inception. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $2,931,063 and an accumulated deficit on August 31, 2005 of $23,778,398. The Company has not generated revenues from operations during fiscal year 2005 and does not expect to generate revenues from operations until one or more of its properties are placed in production. There is a risk that none of the Company’s properties will be placed in production, and that the Company’s operations will not be profitable in the future. Our exploration activities are highly speculative and involve substantial risks. All of the Company’s properties are in the exploration stage and no proven mineral reserves have been established. The Company’s exploration work may not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore in a commercially economical manner. There may be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations, and interruptions may be caused by adverse weather conditions. The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection 8 controls. The Company’s exploration activities are subject to substantial hazards, some of which are not insurable or may not be insured for economic reasons. We cannot accurately predict whether commercial quantities of ores will be established. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors beyond the control of the Company, including the particular attributes of the deposit such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as mineral prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. We cannot accurately predict the exact effect of these factors, but the combination of these factors may result in a mineral deposit being unprofitable. The Company has no mineral producing properties at this time. The Company has not defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves or resources on any of its properties. Although the mineralized material estimates included herein h ave been carefully prepared by the Company, or, in some instances have been prepared, reviewed or verified by independent mining experts, these amounts are estimates only and there is a risk that a particular level of recovery of gold or other minerals from mineralized material will not in fact be realized or that an identified mineralized deposit, if any, will not ever qualify as a commercially mineable or viable reserve. We may not be able to establish the presence of minerals on a commercially viable basis. Our ability to generate revenues and profits is expected to occur through exploration of our existing properties as well as through acquisitions of interests in new properties. We will need to incur substantial expenditures in an attempt to establish the economic feasibility of mining operations by identifying mineral deposits and establishing ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, developing metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore, designing facilities and planning mining operations. The economic feasibility of a project depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including the cost of mining and production facilities required to extract the desired minerals, the total mineral deposits that can be mined using a given facility, the proximity of the mineral deposits to a user of the minerals, and the market price of the minerals at the time of sale. Our existing or future exploration programs or acquisitions may not result in the identification of deposits that can be mined profitably. Our competition is intense in all phases of our business. The Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral interests, as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Our exploration activities are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulation govern the development, mining, production, importing and exporting of minerals; taxes; labor standards; occupational health; waste disposal; protection of the environment; mine safety; toxic substances; and other matters. We require licenses and permits to conduct exploration and mining operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company. Applicable laws and regulations will require the Company to make certain capital and operating expenditures to initiate new operations. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to close an operation once it is started until a particular problem is remedied or to under take other remedial actions. We have uninsurable risks. We may be subject to unforeseen hazards such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions. The Company may become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure. The payment of such liabilities may have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. We depend on key management personnel. The success of the operations and activities of the Company is dependent to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of its management including James E. Sinclair, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Victoria Luis, Chief Financial Officer, and Jonathan Deane, President. Investors must be willing to rely to a significant extent on their discretion and judgment. We do not have employment contracts with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. We maintain key-man life insurance on the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer but not on the Chief Financial Officer or President of the Company. 9 We depend on consultants and engineers for our exploration programs. The Company has relied on and may continue to rely upon consultants for exploration development, construction and operating expertise. Substantial expenditures are required to construct mines, to establish ore reserves through drilling, to carry out environmental and social impact assessments, to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to develop the exploration infrastructure at any suite chosen for exploration. We may not be able to discover minerals in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operation, and we may not be able to obtain funds required for exploration on a timely basis. We are subject to the volatility of metal and mineral prices. The economics of developing metal and mineral properties are affected by many factors beyond our control including, without limitation, the cost of operations, variations in the grade ore or resource mined, and the price of such resources. The market prices of the metals for which we are exploring are highly speculative and volatile. Depending on the price of gold or other resources, the Company may determine that it is impractical to commence or continue commercial production. The price of gold has fluctuated widely in recent years. The price of gold and other metals and minerals may not remain stable, and such prices may not be at levels that will make it feasible to continue the Company’s exploration activities, or commence or continue commercial production. Our business activities are conducted in Tanzania. Our mineral exploration activities in Tanzania may be affected in varying degrees by political stability and government regulations relating to the mining industry and foreign investment in that country. The government of Tanzania may institute regulatory policies that adversely affect the exploration and development (if any) of the Company’s properties. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions in this country are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. Investors should assess the political and regulatory risks related to the Company’s foreign country investments. Our operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, foreign exchange controls, income taxes, expropriation of pr operty, environmental legislation and mine safety. We may not have clear title to our properties. Acquisition of title to mineral properties is a very detailed and time-consuming process, and the Company’s title to its properties may be affected by prior unregistered agreements or transfers, or undetected defects. Several of the Company’s prospecting licenses are currently subject to renewal by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals of Tanzania. In result, there is a risk that we may not have clear title to all our mineral property interests, or they may be subject to challenge or impugned in the future. We have requirements for and there is an uncertainty of access to additional capital. At August 31, 2005, the Company had cash of $1,395,468 and working capital of $1,388,906. The Company will continue to incur exploration costs to fund its plan of operations and intends to fund its plan of operations from working capital and equity subscriptions from the Company’s Chairman and C.E.O. Ultimately, the Company’s ability to continue its exploration activities depends in part on the Company’s ability to commence operations and generate revenues or to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing agreements or some combination of these or other means. We have no cash flow from operations and depend on equity financing for our operations. The Company’s current operations do not generate any cash flow. Any work on the Company’s properties may require additional equity financing. If the Company seeks funding from existing or new joint venture partners, its project interests will be diluted. If the Company seeks additional equity financing, the issuance of additional shares will dilute the current interests of the Company’s current shareholders. We may not be able to obtain additional funding to allow the Company to fulfill its obligations on existing exploration properties. Our failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible partial or total loss of the Company’s potential interest in certain properties or dilution of the Company& #146;s interest in certain properties. 10 Conflicts of interest may arise among our board of directors. Marek J. Kreczmer, Ulrich E. Rath, Anton Esterhuizen and Norman Betts, directors of the Company, are also directors, officers, or shareholders of other companies that are similarly engaged in the business of acquiring, developing, and exploiting natural resource properties. Mr. Kreczmer became a Director and President of Northwestern Mineral Ventures Inc. as of October 14, 2005. He is a director of Golden Patriot Mining Inc., a Canadian company exploring for minerals in India. Mr. Kreczmer is also a Director of Soho Resources Corp., a Canadian company exploring for minerals in Mexico, and a Director of Northern Canadian Minerals Inc., a Canadian company exploring for minerals in Canada. Mr. Rath is the President and CEO and a director of Chariot Resources Ltd., a Canadian company exploring for mineral s in Peru. Mr. Esterhuizen is the Managing Director of Pangea Exploration (Pty.) Ltd., a South African company exploring for minerals in Africa and South America. Dr. Betts is a director of Slam Exploration Inc., a Canadian company exploring for minerals in the Provinces of Ontario and New Brunswick in Canada. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time if the Company were to enter into negotiations to acquire an interest in a mineral project in which their other companies hold an interest, or the Company were to enter into negotiations to sell or joint venture an interest in its mineral properties to any of these companies. The directors of the Company are required to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict will dis close his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. Penny stock rules may make it more difficult to trade the Company’s common shares. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price, as defined, less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as, institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and also affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. Failure to Maintain Effective Internal Controls Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operations. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Auditors addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. 