ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and in our other public statements. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business, operating results and growth rates may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. Our business depends on the overall demand for IT and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to make capital commitments. If the conditions in the U.S. and global economic environment remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Economic weakness, customer financial difficulties and constrained spending on IT initiatives have resulted, and may in the future result, in challenging and delayed sales cycles and could negatively impact our ability to forecast future periods. In particular, we cannot be assured of the level of IT spending, the deterioration of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth rates. The purchase of our products or willingness to replace existing infrastructure in some vertical markets may be discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Therefore, weak economic conditions, or a reduction in IT spending would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our products and services, and reduced unit sales. A reduction in IT spending could occur or persist even if economic conditions improve. In addition, if interest rates rise or foreign exchange rates weaken for our international customers, overall demand for our products and services could be further dampened, and related IT spending may be reduced. Furthermore, any increase in worldwide commodity prices may result in higher component prices and increased shipping costs, both of which may negatively impact our financial results. 13 Table of Contents We compete in new and rapidly evolving markets and have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future operating results. We were incorporated in February 2002 and began commercial shipments of our products in June 2003. As a result of our limited operating history, it is very difficult to forecast our future operating results. In addition, we operate in an industry characterized by rapid technological change. Our prospects should be considered and evaluated in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in rapidly evolving markets characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products and services. These risks and difficulties include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. In addition, our products are designed to be compatible with industry standards for secure communications over wireless and wireline networks. As we encounter changing standards, customer requirements and competitive pressures, we likely will be required to reposition our product and service offerings and introduce new products and services. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. Our failure to address these risks and difficulties successfully could materially harm our business and operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and volatile U.S. and global economic environment, and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Furthermore, our product revenues generally reflect orders shipped in the same quarter they are received, and a substantial portion of our orders are often received in the last month of each fiscal quarter, a trend that may continue. As a result, if we are unable to ship orders received in the last month of each fiscal quarter, even though we may have business indicators about customer demand during a quarter, we may experience revenue shortfalls, and such shortfalls may materially adversely affect our earnings because we may not be able to adequately and timely adjust our expense levels. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions, including the restricted credit environment impacting the credit of our channel partners and end user customers; • our ability to develop and maintain our relationships with our VARs, VADs, OEMs and other partners; • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and prices for our products and services; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • the sale of our products in the timeframes we anticipate, including the number and size of orders in each quarter; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner, new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements; • our dependence on several large vertical markets, including the government, healthcare, retail, enterprise and education vertical markets; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; 14 Table of Contents • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants, or further consolidation; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses, and the costs of the components we purchase; • product mix and average selling prices, as well as increased discounting of products by us and our competitors; • the proportion of our products that are sold through direct versus indirect channels; • our ability to maintain volume manufacturing pricing from our contract manufacturers, and our component suppliers; • our contract manufacturers and component suppliers’ ability to meet our product demand forecasts; • the potential need to record incremental inventory reserves for products that may become obsolete due to our new product introductions; • growth in our headcount and other related costs incurred in our customer support organization; • changing market conditions, including current and potential customer consolidation; • any decision to increase or decrease operating expenses in response to changes in the marketplace or perceived marketplace opportunities; • our ability to derive benefits from our investments in sales, marketing, engineering or other activities; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses; • fluctuations in our effective tax rate, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof; • the timing of revenue recognition in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules; • the regulatory environment for the certification and sale of our products; and • seasonal demand for our products, some of which may not be currently evident due to our revenue growth during fiscal 2010 and 2011. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict even in the near term. In one or more future quarterly periods, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors or below any guidance we may provide to the market. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and our recent level of product gross margin may not be sustainable. Our product gross margins vary from quarter to quarter and the recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including product or sales channel mix shifts, the percentage of revenue from international regions, increased price competition, increases in material or labor costs, excess product component or obsolescence charges from our contract manufacturers, write-downs for obsolete or excess inventory, increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to component holding periods if our forecasts do not accurately anticipate product demand, warranty-related issues, product discounting, freight charges, or our introduction of new products or new product platforms or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. As a result of any of these factors, or other factors, our gross margin may be adversely affected, which in turn would harm our operating results. 15 Table of Contents In our recent history we have incurred net losses and while we are currently profitable, we may not sustain profitability in the future. We have a history of losses and only recently achieved profitability. We generated net income of $70.7 million for fiscal year 2011 and suffered net losses of $34.0 million and $23.4 million for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of July 31, 2011 and 2010, our accumulated deficit was $104.9 million and $175.6 million, respectively. Expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business, including expenditures to hire additional personnel for sales and marketing and technology development, could limit our ability to sustain operating profits. If we fail to increase revenues or manage our cost structure, we may not sustain profitability in the future. As a result, our business could be harmed, and our stock price could decline. Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. The timing of our revenues is difficult to predict. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including the technical capabilities of our products and the potential cost savings achieved by organizations that utilize our products. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our products but also those of our competitors and can result in a lengthy sales cycle, which typically ranges four to nine months in length but can be as long as 18 months. We spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately. In addition, product purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. Specifically, we view the federal vertical as highly dependent on large transactions, and therefore we could experience fluctuations from period to period in this vertical. Customers may also defer purchases as a result of anticipated or announced releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or by us. Product purchases could be delayed by the volatile U.S. and global economic environment, which has introduced additional risk into our ability to accurately forecast sales in a particular quarter. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The market in which we compete is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share. The market in which we compete is highly competitive and is influenced by the following competitive factors: • comprehensiveness of the solution; • performance of software and hardware products; • ability to deploy easily into existing networks; • interoperability with other devices; • scalability of solution; • ability to provide secure mobile access to the network; • speed of mobile connectivity offering; • initial price, total cost of ownership, and return-on-investment; • ability to allow centralized management of products; and • ability to obtain regulatory and other industry certifications. We expect competition to intensify in the future as other companies introduce new products in the same markets we serve or intend to enter and as the market continues to consolidate. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results or financial 16 Table of Contents condition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. Competitive products may in the future have better performance, more and/or better features, lower prices and broader acceptance than our products. A number of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. Currently, we compete with a number of large and well established public companies, including Cisco Systems (primarily through its Wireless Networking Business Unit), Hewlett-Packard and Motorola, as well as smaller companies and new market entrants, any of which could reduce our market share, require us to lower our prices, or both. We expect increased competition from our current competitors, as well as other established and emerging companies, if our market continues to develop and expand. Our channel partners could market products and services that compete with our products and services. In addition, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive solution than they individually had offered. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Many of the companies driving this consolidation trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and are better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and technologies. The companies resulting from these possible consolidations may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or product functionality. Continued industry consolidation may adversely impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller and even medium-sized technology companies and, consequently, customers’ willingness to purchase from such companies. These pressures could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We sell a majority of our products through VADs, VARs, and OEMs. If these channel partners on which we rely do not perform their services adequately or efficiently, or if they exit the industry, are acquired by a competitor, or have financial difficulties, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenues and our cash flow. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of VADs, VARs, and OEMs, which we refer to as our indirect channel. We have dedicated a significant amount of effort to increase the use of our VADs and VARs in each of our theatres of operations. The percentage of our total revenues fulfilled from sales through our indirect channel was 93.0%, 92.4%, and 84.6% for fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We expect that over time, indirect channel sales will continue to constitute a significant majority of our total revenues. Accordingly, our revenues depend in large part on the effective performance of our channel partners. Three of our channel partners accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for fiscal year 2011, 2010 and 2009. The table below represents the percentage of total revenues from our top channel partners (*denotes less than 10%): Years Ended July 31, 2011 2010 2009 ScanSource, Inc. (“Catalyst”) 19.4 % 17.1 % * Avnet Logistics U.S. LP 17.1 % 16.6 % 10.1 % Alcatel-Lucent 13.9 % 10.4 % 14.5 % Our agreements with our partners provide that they use reasonable commercial efforts to sell our products on a perpetual basis unless the agreement is otherwise terminated by either party. Our agreement with Alcatel-Lucent contains a “most-favored nations” clause, pursuant to which we agreed to lower the price at which we sell products to Alcatel-Lucent in the event that we agree to sell the same or similar products at a lower price to a similar customer on the same or similar terms and conditions. However, the specific terms of this “most-favored nations” clause are narrow and specific, and we have not to date incurred any obligations related to this term in the agreement. 17 Table of Contents Some of our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in worldwide business conditions, including economic downturns, abide by our inventory and credit requirements, or have the ability to meet their financial obligations to us. The table below represents the percentage of total accounts receivable from our top channel partners (*denotes less than 10%): As of July 31, 2011 2010 ScanSource, Inc. (“Catalyst”) * 31.6 % Avnet Logistics U.S. LP 23.8 % 18.2 % Alcatel-Lucent 18.4 % * If the indirect channel partners on which we rely do not perform their services adequately or efficiently, fail to meet their obligations to us, or if they exit the industry and we are not able to quickly find adequate replacements, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow and market share. By relying on these indirect channels, we may have less contact with the end users of our products, thereby making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our products, service ongoing customer requirements and respond to evolving customer needs. In addition, our indirect channel partners may receive pricing terms that allow for volume discounts off of list prices for the products they purchase from us, which reduce our margins to the extent revenues from such channel partners increase as a proportion of our overall revenues. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel partners, including investment in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. We have no minimum purchase commitments with any of our VADs, VARs, or OEMs, and our contracts with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours or from terminating our contract on short notice. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products. Our channel partners may choose not to focus primarily on the sale of our products or offer our products at all. Our failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with indirect channel partners would likely materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to our existing products. If we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and our customers’ changing needs, we may not be able to remain competitive. We may not be able to anticipate future market needs or be able to develop new products or product enhancements to meet such needs, either on a timely basis or at all. For example, we anticipate a need to continue to increase the mobility of our solution, and certain customers have delayed, and may in the future delay, purchases of our products until either new versions of those products are available or the customer evaluations are completed. If we fail to develop new products or product enhancements, our business could be adversely affected, especially if our competitors are able to introduce solutions with such increased functionality. In addition, as new mobile applications are introduced, our success may depend on our ability to provide a solution that supports these applications. We are active in the research and development of new products and technologies and enhancing our current products. However, research and development in the enterprise mobility industry is complex and filled with uncertainty. If we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of products that are competitive in the marketplace, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. In addition, it is common for research and development projects to encounter delays due to unforeseen problems, resulting in low initial volume production, fewer product features than originally considered desirable and higher production costs than initially budgeted, which may result in lost market opportunities. In addition, any new products or product enhancements that we introduce may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance or be accepted into our sales channel by our channel partners. There could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial 18 Table of Contents condition and market share due to such delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing and delivery of new products. Once a product is in the marketplace, its selling price often decreases over the life of the product, especially after a new competitive product is publicly announced. To lessen the effect of price decreases, our product management team attempts to reduce development and manufacturing costs in order to maintain or improve our margins. However, if cost reductions do not occur in a timely manner, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and market share. Further, the introduction of new products may decrease the demand for older products currently included in our inventory balances. As a result, we may need to record incremental inventory reserves for the older products that we do not expect to sell. This may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and market share. We manufacture our products to comply with standards established by various standards bodies, including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (“IEEE”). If we are not able to adapt to new or changing standards that are ratified by these bodies, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected. For example, prior to the ratification of the 802.11n wireless LAN standard (“11n”) by the IEEE in 2009, we had been developing and were offering for sale products that complied with the draft standard that the IEEE had not yet ratified. Although the IEEE ratified the 11n standard and did not modify the draft of the 11n standard, the IEEE could modify the standard in the future. We remain subject to any changes adopted by various standards bodies, which would require us to modify our products to comply with the new standards, require additional time and expense and could cause a disruption in our ability to market and sell the affected products. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Amigopod and in September 2010, we completed our acquisition of Azalea Networks (“Azalea”). In the future we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals. These acquisitions and any future acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, these acquisitions and any future acquisitions that we may make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. We may also encounter difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations, or in managing geographically or culturally diverse locations. We may experience significant problems with acquired or integrated product quality. We may also experience significant liabilities associated with acquired or integrated technology. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the fact that we outsource the manufacturing of our products to contract manufacturers, we do not have the ability to ensure quality control over the manufacturing process. Furthermore, if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of our contract manufacturers, our ability to supply quality products to our customers may be disrupted. As a result of the fact that we outsource the manufacturing of our products to contract manufacturers, we are subject to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of our products. Quality or performance failures of our products or changes in the financial or business condition of our contract manufacturers could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and financial condition. We rely on purchase orders or long-term contracts with our contract manufacturers. Some of our contract manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any 19 Table of Contents specific price. Our orders with our contract manufacturers represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by them from their customers. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event our contract manufacturers are constrained in their abilities to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. We provide demand forecasts to our contract manufacturers. To the extent that any such demand forecast is binding, if we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may assess charges, or we may have liabilities for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margins. Conversely, because lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for each component at a given time, if we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate materials and components required to produce our products. This could result in an interruption of the manufacturing of our products, delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenue. In addition, on occasion we have underestimated our requirements, and, as a result, we have been required to pay additional fees to our contract manufacturers in order for manufacturing to be completed and shipments to be made on a timely basis. It is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement contract manufacturer relationships. If any of our contract manufacturers suffer an interruption in their business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or we have to change or add additional contract manufacturers, our ability to ship products to our customers would be delayed, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, the majority of our manufacturing is performed overseas and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business in other countries. Our contract manufacturers purchase some components, subassemblies and products from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers, and with respect to some of these suppliers, we have entered into license agreements that allow us to use their components in our products. The loss of any of these suppliers or the termination of any of these license agreements may cause us to incur additional set-up costs, result in delays in manufacturing and delivering our products, or cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory. Shortages in components that we use in our products are possible, and our ability to predict the availability of such components may be limited. While components and supplies are generally available from a variety of sources, we currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for several components for our equipment and certain subassemblies and products. We rely on our contract manufacturers to obtain the components, subassemblies and products necessary for the manufacture of our products, including those components, subassemblies and products that are only available from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. For example, our solution incorporates both software products and hardware products, including a series of high-performance programmable mobility controllers and a line of wired and wireless access points. The chipsets that our contract manufacturers source and incorporate in our hardware products are currently available only from a limited number of suppliers, with whom neither we nor our contract manufacturers have entered into supply agreements. All of our access points incorporate components from Atheros, and some of our mobility controllers incorporate components from Broadcom and Netlogic. We have entered into license agreements with Atheros, Broadcom and Netlogic, the termination of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our license agreements with Atheros, Broadcom and Netlogic have perpetual terms in that they will automatically be renewed for successive one-year periods unless the agreement is terminated prior to the end of the then-current term. As there are no other sources for identical components, in the event that our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain these components from Atheros, Broadcom or Netlogic, we would be required to redesign our hardware and software in order to incorporate components from alternative sources. All of our product revenues are dependent upon the sale of products that incorporate components from Atheros, Broadcom or Netlogic. In addition, increased demand by third parties for the components, subassemblies and products we use in our products may lead to decreased availability and higher prices for those components, subassemblies and products. For certain components, subassemblies and products for which there are multiple sources, we are still subject to potential price increases and limited availability due to market demand for such components, subassemblies and products. In the past, unexpected demand for communication products caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts. If such shortages occur in the future, our business would be adversely affected. We carry very little 20 Table of Contents to no inventory of our product components, and we and our contract manufacturers rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components in a timely manner. We and our contract manufacturers rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with these suppliers. As a result, even if available, we or our contract manufacturers may not be able to secure sufficient components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products in a timely manner and, therefore, may not be able to meet customer demands for our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers outside the United States. We have sales and technical support personnel in numerous countries worldwide. In addition, a portion of our engineering and order management efforts are currently handled by personnel located in India and China, and we expect to expand our offshore development efforts within India and China and possibly in other countries. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • the difficulty and cost of managing and staffing international offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the need to localize our products for international customers; • tariffs and trade barriers, export regulations and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • increased exposure to political and economic instability, war and terrorism; • unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws; • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • increased cost of terminating international employees in some countries. Foreign currencies periodically experience rapid fluctuations in value against the U.S. dollar. Any foreign currency devaluation against the U.S. dollar increases the real cost of our products to our customers and partners in foreign markets where we sell in U.S. dollars, which has resulted in the past and may result in the future in delayed or cancelled purchases of our products and, as a result, lower revenues. In addition, this increase in cost increases the risk to us that we will be unable to collect amounts owed to us by such customers or partners, which in turn would impact our revenues and could materially adversely impact our business and financial results. Any devaluation may also lead us to more aggressively discount our prices in foreign markets in order to maintain competitive pricing, which would negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. Conversely, a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we purchase components in foreign currencies. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. We depend on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other 21 Table of Contents countries. There can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. For example, the laws of certain countries in which our products are manufactured or licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. Due to the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on proprietary technologies of third parties, and we may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, patent holding companies seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained. As our business expands and the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur, we expect that infringement claims may increase in number and significance. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual property claims. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any claims or proceedings against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Impairment of our goodwill or other assets would negatively affect our results of operations. Our acquisitions have resulted in total goodwill of $33.1 million and intangible assets of $20.9 million as of July 31, 2011. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or sooner under certain circumstances. Other intangible assets that are deemed to have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives but must be reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Screening for and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating fundamentals, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a charge to operations will not occur as a result of future goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests. If impairment is deemed to exist, we would write down the recorded value of these intangible assets to their fair values. If and when these write-downs do occur, they could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we lose members of our senior management or are unable to recruit and retain key employees on a cost-effective basis, or if we fail to effectively integrate new officers into our organization, our business could be harmed. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management. All of our executive officers are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-man life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any members of our management team may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our product development and other business objectives and could harm our business. Our success also is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our sales, research and development, and customer service departments. Experienced management and technical, sales, marketing and support personnel in the IT industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Additionally, fluctuations or a sustained decrease in the price of our stock could affect our ability to attract and retain such personnel. When our stock price declines, our equity incentive awards may lose retention value, which may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain such personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. The loss of, or the inability to recruit, such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate any new executive officers into our management team and develop an effective working relationship among senior management. For example, we have a new Chief Financial Officer. If we fail to integrate our new Chief Financial Officer, or any other executive officer whom we may hire in the future, and create effective working relationships among them and other members of management, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. We have expanded our operations significantly since inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. We intend to increase our market penetration and extend our geographic reach through our network of channel partners. We also plan to increase offshore operations by establishing additional offshore capabilities for certain engineering and general and administrative functions. This future growth, if it occurs, will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve and expand our information technology and financial infrastructure, operating and administrative systems and controls, and continue to manage headcount, capital and processes in an efficient manner. Our failure to improve our systems and processes, or their failure to operate in the intended manner, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast our revenues, expenses and earnings, or to prevent certain losses. Any future growth would add complexity to our organization and require effective coordination within our organization. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are deployed within our end customers’ networks, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not effectively assist our end customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our end customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, or provide effective ongoing support, it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure, or the failure of our channel partners, to maintain high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Enterprises are increasingly concerned with the security of their data, and to the extent they elect to encrypt data between the end user and the server, our products will become less effective. Our products depend on the ability to identify applications. Our products currently do not identify applications if the data is encrypted as it passes through our mobility controllers. Since most organizations currently encrypt most of their data transmissions only between sites and not on the LAN, the data is not encrypted when it passes through our mobility controllers. If more organizations elect to encrypt their data transmissions from the end user to the server, our products will offer limited benefits unless we have been successful in incorporating additional functionality into our products that address those encrypted transmissions. At the same time, if our products do not provide the level of network security expected by our customers, our reputation and brand would be damaged, and we would expect to experience decreased sales. Our failure to provide such additional functionality and expected level of network security could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected hardware errors or software bugs, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many networks. Our products have contained and may contain undetected errors, bugs or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors, bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, damage to our brand and reputation, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. We could also be subject to similar conditions or restrictions should there be any changes in the licensing terms of the open source software incorporated into our products. In either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. 24 Table of Contents Enterprises may have slow WAN connections between some of their locations that may cause our products to become less effective. Our mobility controllers and network management software were initially designed to function at LAN-like speeds in an office building or campus environment. In order to function appropriately, our mobility controllers synchronize with each other over network links. The ability of our products to synchronize may be limited by slow or congested data-links, including digital subscriber line (“DSL”) and dial-up. Our failure to provide such additional functionality could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. New regulations or changes in existing regulations related to our products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future sales, and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Our products are subject to governmental regulations in a variety of jurisdictions. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, radio emissions are subject to regulation in the United States and in other countries in which we do business. In the United States, various federal agencies including the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies have promulgated regulations that concern the use of radio/electromagnetic emissions standards. Member countries of the European Union (“EU”) have enacted similar standards concerning electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility and emissions standards. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. In addition, our wireless communication products operate through the transmission of radio signals. Currently, operation of these products in specified frequency bands does not require licensing by regulatory authorities. Regulatory changes restricting the use of frequency bands or allocating available frequencies could become more burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future sales. Compliance with environmental matters and worker health and safety laws could be costly, and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and radio frequency transmission equipment and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may increase the cost of building and selling our products, create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our 25 Table of Contents products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in our tax rates could adversely affect our future results. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates, which are difficult to predict, could be unfavorably affected by nondeductible stock-based compensation, changes in the research and development tax credit laws, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Further, the accounting for stock compensation expense in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718 Stock Compensation and uncertain tax positions in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740 Income Taxes (“ASC 740”) could result in more unpredictability and variability to our future effective tax rates. We are also subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We may underestimate the outcome of such examinations which, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not achieve increased tax benefits as a result of our planned new corporate structure, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We intend to implement a new structure of our corporate organization during fiscal year 2012 to more closely align our corporate organization with the international nature of our business activities and to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes in how we develop and use our intellectual property and the structure of our international procurement and sales, including by entering into transfer-pricing arrangements that establish transfer prices for our intercompany transactions. We anticipate achieving a reduction in our overall effective tax rate in the future as a result. There can be no assurance that the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate or to which we are otherwise deemed to have sufficient tax nexus will not challenge the tax benefits that we expect to realize as a result of the new structure. In addition, future changes to U.S. or non-U.S. tax laws, including proposed legislation to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities as described above, would negatively impact the anticipated tax benefits of the proposed new structure. Any benefits to our tax rate will also depend on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with the new structure of our corporate organization and applicable taxing provisions, including by eliminating the amount of cash distributed to us by our subsidiaries. If the intended tax treatment is not accepted by the applicable taxing authorities, changes in tax law negatively impact the proposed structure or we do not operate our business consistent with the new structure and applicable tax provisions, we may fail to achieve the financial efficiencies that we anticipate as a result of the new structure and our future operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of 26 Table of Contents interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains various provisions applicable to the corporate governance functions of public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, floods and other natural catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, occurring at our headquarters or in either China or Singapore, where our major contract manufacturers are located, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war could cause disruptions in our or our customers’ businesses or the economy as a whole. We also rely on information technology systems to communicate among our workforce and with third parties. Any disruption to our communications, whether caused by a natural disaster or by manmade problems, such as power disruptions, could adversely affect our business. To the extent that any such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the deployment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could affect the trading price of our common stock could include: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or product enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the impact of unfavorable worldwide economic and market conditions; • falling short of guidance on our financial results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • announcements by or about us regarding events or news adverse to our business; • the loss or bankruptcy of any of our major customers, distribution partners or suppliers; • variations in the operating results of other publicly traded corporations deemed by investors to be in our peer group; • an announced acquisition of or by a competitor, or an announced acquisition of or by us; • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; 27 Table of Contents • providing estimates of our future operating results, or changes in these estimates, either by us or by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; • significant sales, or announcement of significant sales, of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. All of these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and investors may lose some or all of the value of their investment. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Insiders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. As of July 31, 2011, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 9.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. We may choose to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available, or may be available on unfavorable terms, which may dilute the ownership of our common stock. If we choose to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, due to unforeseen circumstances or material expenditures, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all, and any additional financings could result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, capital raised through debt financing may require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law, employment arrangements with certain of our executive officers, and our OEM supply agreement with Alcatel-Lucent could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; 28 Table of Contents • our stockholders may not act by written consent or call special stockholders’ meetings; as a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions other than at annual stockholders’ meetings or special stockholders’ meetings called by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the Chief Executive Officer or the president; • our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • stockholders must provide advance notice and additional disclosures in order to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and • our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Certain of our executive officers may be entitled to accelerated vesting of their stock options pursuant to the terms of their employment arrangements upon a change of control of Aruba. In addition to the arrangements currently in place with some of our executive officers, we may enter into similar arrangements in the future with other officers. Such arrangements could delay or discourage a potential acquisition of Aruba. In addition, our OEM supply agreement with Alcatel-Lucent provides that, in the event of a change of control that would cause Alcatel-Lucent to purchase our products from an entity that is an Alcatel-Lucent competitor, we must, without additional consideration, (1) provide Alcatel-Lucent with any information required by Alcatel-Lucent to make, test and support the products that we distribute through our OEM relationship with Alcatel-Lucent, including all hardware designs and software source code, and (2) otherwise cooperate with Alcatel-Lucent to transition the manufacturing, testing and support of these products to Alcatel-Lucent. We are also obligated to promptly inform Alcatel-Lucent if and when we receive an inquiry concerning a bona fide proposal or offer to effect a change of control and will not enter into negotiations concerning a change of control without such prior notice to Alcatel-Lucent. Each of these provisions could delay or result in a discount to the proceeds our stockholders would otherwise receive upon a change of control or could discourage a third party from making a change of control offer. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. While we were able to assert in this report that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2011, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to assert in any future reporting period that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 