ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions concerning the Company’s common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial but may also impair the Company’s business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. The Company’s business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008 in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn, which have continued into 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are struggling due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. More recently, unemployment has also increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $250 billion in the equity of banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. 16 Table of Contents As a result of these financial and economic crises, many lending institutions, including the Company, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Total nonperforming loans increased to $20.5 million as of December 31, 2008 from $6.3 million as of December 31, 2007, representing 1.19% and 0.35%, respectively, of total loans. Total nonperforming assets, net of SBA guarantees, were $18.3 million as of December 31, 2008, compared to $3.9 million as of December 31, 2007. The Company had nonperforming commercial real estate loans of $13.1 million and $0 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and no subprime mortgage loans as of either date. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, and the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets has become increasingly difficult. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments may negatively impact the Company’s operations by restricting its business operations, including the ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact the Company’s financial performance or stock price. In addition, further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increased delinquencies and default rates, which may impact the Company’s charge-offs and provision for loan losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. While the Company’s market areas have not experienced the same degree of challenges as other parts of the country or the state, no assurance can be given that this will continue to be the case. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on the Company’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, it is expected that the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a real estate recession or natural disaster. Approximately $1.2 billion or 69.6% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008, and $1.3 billion or 69.8% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007, were concentrated in commercial real estate and construction loans. Of this amount, $143.3 million represented loans secured by industrial buildings, and $311.7 million represented loans secured by retail shopping centers as of December 31, 2008. Although commercial loans generally provide for higher interest rates and shorter terms than single-family residential loans, such loans generally involve a higher degree of risk, as the ability of borrowers to repay these loans is often dependent upon the profitability of the borrowers’ businesses. During 2008, the real estate market in Southern California deteriorated significantly, as evidenced by declining market values, reduced transaction volume, and increased foreclosure rates, and this deterioration resulted in an increase in the level of the Company’s nonperforming loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. Total nonperforming loans increased to $20.5 million as of December 31, 2008 from $6.3 million as of December 31, 2007, representing 1.19% and 0.35%, respectively, of total loans. Total nonperforming assets, net of SBA guarantees, were $18.3 million as of December 31, 2008 as compared to $3.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Non-accrual loans in commercial real estate, real estate construction and commercial loans represented 84.8% of the total non-accrual loans as of December 31, 2008. The Company had nonperforming commercial real estate loans of $13.1 million and $0 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and no subprime mortgage loans as of either date. If trends in the Company’s market areas continue or worsen, the result will likely be reduced income, increased expenses, and less cash available for lending and other activities, which would have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents As the primary collateral for many of the Company’s loans rests on commercial real estate properties, deterioration in the real estate market in the areas the Company serves could reduce the value of the collateral value for many of the Company’s loans and negatively impact the repayment ability of many of its borrowers. Such deterioration would likely also reduce the amount of loans the Company makes to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact its business. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the banking regulators have begun to give CRE loans greater scrutiny, due to perceived risks relating to the cyclical nature of the real estate market and the related risks for lenders with high concentrations of such loans. The regulators may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, and may possibly require higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. The Company may experience loan losses in excess of its allowance for loan losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level it believes is adequate to absorb any inherent losses in the loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that are beyond the Company’s control may cause its actual loan losses to exceed current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the allowance for loan losses, it would aversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company tries to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans. Losses nevertheless occur. The Company establishes a loan loss allowance for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the statements of financial condition date. The Company bases allowance on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical loss experience; • evaluation of current economic conditions; • assessment of risk factors for loans with exposure to the economies of southern California and Pacific Rim countries; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying the Company’s loans. All of the Company’s lending involves underwriting risks, especially in a competitive lending market. At December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans and construction loans represented 69.6% of the Company’s total loan portfolio; commercial lines and term loans to businesses represented 19.4% of the Company’s total loan portfolio; and SBA loans represented 2.2% of the Company’s total loan portfolio. 18 Table of Contents Real estate lending involves risks associated with the potential decline in the value of underlying real estate collateral and the cash flow from income producing properties. Declines in real estate values and cash flows can be caused by a number of factors, including adversity in general economic conditions, rising interest rates, changes in tax and other governmental and other policies affecting real estate holdings, environmental conditions, governmental and other use restrictions, development of competitive properties, and increasing vacancy rates. The Company’s dependence on commercial real estate loans increases the risk of loss both in the Company’s loan portfolio and with respect to any other real estate owned when real estate values decline. The Company seeks to reduce risk of loss through underwriting and monitoring procedures. Commercial lending, even when secured by the assets of a business, involves considerable risk of loss in the event of failure of the business. To reduce such risk, the Company typically takes additional security interests in other collateral, such as real property, certificates of deposit or life insurance, and/or obtains personal guarantees. Specific risks associated with SBA lending are discussed in a separate risk factor below. The Company has specific risks associated with Small Business Administration loans. The Company realized $1.0 million, $618,000, and $3.3 million in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, in gains recognized on secondary market sales of SBA loans. The Company has regularly sold the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of these loans in the secondary market in previous years. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will continue to exist for, or that it will continue to realize premiums upon, the sale of the SBA loans. The federal government presently guarantees approximately 75% of the principal amount of each qualifying SBA loan. The Company can provide no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA program, or if it does, that such guaranteed portion will remain at its current funding level. Furthermore, the Company can provide no assurance that it will retain the preferred lender status, which, subject to certain limitations, allows it to approve and fund SBA loans without the necessity of having the loan approved in advance by the SBA, or that if it does, the federal government will not reduce the amount of such loans. The Company believes that the SBA loan portfolio does not involve more than a normal risk of collectibility. However, since the Company has sold some of the guaranteed portions of the SBA loan portfolio, the Company incurs a pro rata credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans since the Company shares pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, pursuit of remedies against a borrower subject to SBA approval, and where the SBA establishes that its loss is attributable to deficiencies in the manner in which the loan application has been prepared and submitted, the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee with respect to the SBA loans or it may seek the recovery of damages from the Company. As of December 31, 2008, SBA loans comprised 7.5% of the Company’s total nonperforming assets compared to 64% as of December 31, 2007. These loans are typically 75% guaranteed by the SBA. For additional discussion see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Loan Portfolio” in Item 2. Center Financial will not be able to resume the payment of cash dividends without the approval of the Treasury Department until December 2011 unless the preferred stock issued to the Treasury Department has been redeemed. Center Financial paid quarterly cash dividends of 5 cents per share in each quarter of 2008, and in July and October 2007 and 4 cents per share in January and April of 2007 and in each quarter of 2006. On March 25, 2009, the Company’s board of directors suspended its quarterly cash dividends based on adverse economic conditions and a reduction in the Company’s earnings. The board of directors determined that this is a prudent, safe and sound practice to preserve capital, and does not expect to resume the payment of cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Unless the preferred stock issued to the Treasury Department in the TARP Capital Purchase Program has been redeemed, the Company will not be permitted to resume paying cash dividends without the 19 Table of Contents consent of the Treasury Department until December 2011. Once the Company is again permitted to pay cash dividends, the amount of any such dividend will be determined each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion, based on the factors described in the next paragraph. No assurance can be given that future performance will justify the payment of dividends in any particular quarter. As a bank holding company which currently has no significant assets other than its equity interest in the Bank, Center Financial’s ability to pay dividends depends on the dividends it receives from the Bank. The dividend practice of the Bank depends on its earnings, financial position, current and anticipated cash requirements and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors at that time. Dividends payable to Center Financial by the Bank are restricted under California and federal laws and regulation. Center Financial’s ability to pay dividends is also limited by state corporation law. Moreover, during any period in which Center Financial has deferred payment of interest otherwise due and payable on its subordinated debt securities, or any unpaid dividends on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury Department, we may not make any dividends or distributions with respect to our capital stock. See “Item 5—Market For Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters And Issuer Purchases Of Equity Securities—Dividends” and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources.” The Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain banking customers at current levels, and its efforts to compete may reduce profitability. Competition in the banking industry in the markets served and to be served by the Company may limit the Company’s ability to continue to attract and retain banking customers. The banking business in the Company’s current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. While the Company’s primary market area is generally dominated by a relatively small number of major banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area, the Company’s three main competitors in its niche markets are three Korean-American banks of which two are comparable in size and the third is twice its asset size, which also focus their business strategies on Korean-American consumers and businesses. Primary competitors in the greater Chicago and Seattle metropolitan areas are also locally owned and operated Korean-American banks and subsidiaries of Korean banks. These competitors have branches located in many of the same neighborhoods as the Company, provide similar types of products and services and use the same Korean language publications and media for their marketing purposes. There is a high level of competition within this specific market. While major banks have not historically focused their marketing efforts on the Korean-American customer base in Southern California, their competitive influence could increase in the future. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than the Company, offer certain services the Company cannot, and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than the Company on a per loan or per asset basis. In addition to competitive factors impacting the Company’s specific market niche, the Company is affected by more general competitive trends in the banking industry, including intra-state and interstate consolidation, competition from non-bank sources, and technological innovations. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, with recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. 20 Table of Contents Ultimately, competition can and does increase the Company’s cost of funds and drive down its net interest margin, thereby reducing profitability. It can also make it more difficult for the Company to continue to increase the size of its loan portfolio and deposit base, and could cause the Company to need to rely more heavily on borrowings, which are generally more expensive than deposits, as a source of funds in the future. See “Item 1, Business—Competition.” If the Company is not able to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the industry, its business could be hurt. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better service clients and reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands, as well as create additional efficiencies within our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, on its financial condition and results of operations. Recently enacted legislation and the Company’s participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program may increase costs and limit the Company’s ability to pursue business opportunities. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), as augmented by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”), was intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) may result in increased regulation of the industry in general and/or TARP Capital Purchase Program participants in particular. Compliance with such regulations may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. The Company’s participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect the value of the Company’s common stock and the rights of the Company’s common shareholders. In December 2008, the Company issued and sold $55 million of its Series A perpetual preferred stock to the Treasury Department. The terms of the preferred stock could reduce investment returns to the Company’s common shareholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing shareholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. The Company’s board of directors suspended its quarterly cash dividends beginning in the first quarter of 2009, and unless the preferred stock has been redeemed, the Company will not be able to resume paying cash dividends without the consent of the Treasury Department. The Company will also be prohibited paying any dividends on its common stock in the event of any unpaid dividends on the preferred stock. The preferred stock also ranks senior to the Company’s common stock on liquidation. The liquidation amount of the Series A perpetual preferred stock is $1,000 per share. Also, the preferred stock requires quarterly dividends to be paid at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by the Company. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. If the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs do not help stabilize the U.S. financial system, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (as augmented by the Stimulus Bill) was intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are 21 Table of Contents implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC TLGP. While the Company did not “opt-out” of the TLGP, the Company does not currently intend to issue any guaranteed debt thereunder. The Company is a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. It cannot currently be predicted what impact the EESA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The EESA and the Stimulus Bill are relatively new legislation and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. As a result, it is impossible to predict the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $18 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to its statutory trust. The trust purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of common stock and to its Series A perpetual preferred stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its common stock or preferred stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the shareholders. If certain conditions are met, the Company has the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) at any time or from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters in a deferral period, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company’s common stock or preferred stock. The holders of the Company’s Series A perpetual preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In December 2008, the Company issued and sold $55 million of its Series A perpetual preferred stock to the Treasury Department, which stock ranks senior to the Company’s common stock in the payment of dividends and on liquidation. The liquidation amount of the Series A perpetual preferred stock is $1,000 per share. The Company’s expenses will increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. Recent bank failures coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly reduced the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio, which fell to 1.01% as of June 30, 2008, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. As a result of this reduced reserve ratio, on October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates 22 Table of Contents would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted its rule, uniformly increasing the risk-based assessment rates by seven basis points, annually, resulting in a range of risk-based assessment of 12 basis points to 50 basis points. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. As a member institution of the FDIC, the Bank is required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The Bank’s deposit insurance premiums for 2008 and 2007 were $1.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Due to the continued failures of unaffiliated FDIC insured depository institutions, it is expected that the Bank’s FDIC deposit insurance premiums will continue to increase in the future, perhaps significantly, thereby adversely impacting the Company’s future earnings. The FDIC recently announced that, in view of the decrease in the deposit insurance fund’s reserves to $18.9 billion as of December 31, 2008, it will impose a special assessment in the second quarter of 2009 of 20 basis points of domestic deposits. The FDIC subsequently announced that the special assessment is expected to be lowered by an additional 2 to 4 basis points by raising the fees it charges to guarantee debt under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program in which the Company does not participate, and that this assessment could be lowered by an additional 10 basis points if Congress increases the FDIC’s borrowing capacity with the Treasury Department to $100 billion. The FDIC also approved an increase in regular premium rates, which banks must continue to pay on top of the special assessment. The regular premium rates for most banks in the second quarter will now be between 12 and 16 basis points, compared to range of between 12 and 14 basis points which most banks currently pay. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance the Company’s activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. The Company’s access to liquidity sources could be detrimentally impacted by a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which the Company’s loans are concentrated. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by more general factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The Company relies on commercial and retail deposits, brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (“FHLB”) and other borrowings to fund its operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, it might not be possible to replace 23 Table of Contents such funds in the future if, among other things, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Although the Company considers these sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Company may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, the Company may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our business objectives, in connection with any future acquisitions or for other reasons, and additional borrowings may or may not be available and, if available, may not be so on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. The Company actively monitors the depository institutions that hold its federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. Access to the Company’s cash equivalents and federal funds sold could be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and the Company diversifies its due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. The financial conditions of the counterparties are routinely reviewed as part of the Company’s asset/liability management process. Balances in the Company’s accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While the Company monitors and adjusts the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. In addition, due to the nature of the market the Company serves, a significant portion of its deposits are held by customers with ties to South Korea who may be inclined to transfer such deposits to South Korea depending on the relative value of the U. S. dollar and the South Korean currency. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company experienced a significant loss of deposits when customers transferred deposits to South Korea as a result of the devaluation of South Korean currency to the U. S. dollar. To date, these deposits have been replaced by retail deposits and wholesale funding. If an additional sustained withdrawal of deposits under similar circumstances should occur in the future, the Company’s liquidity position could be significantly and adversely impacted. The value of securities in the Company’s investment portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit, liquidity risks and illiquid markets for certain securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If the Company’s information systems were to experience a system failure or a breach in its network security, the Company’s business and reputation could suffer. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. In addition, the Company must be able to protect its computer systems and network infrastructure against physical damage, security breaches and service disruption caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure. The Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems and with the help of third-party service providers, will continue to implement security technology and monitor and update operational procedures to prevent such damage. However, if such failures, interruptions or security breaches were to occur, they could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company depends on its executive officers and key personnel to implement its business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. The Company believes that its growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of its management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain or motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. The Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in January 2007; its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer joined the Company in an acting capacity in February 2007 and as permanent Chief Financial Officer in April 2007; its Executive Vice President and General Counsel & Chief Risk Officer joined the Company in February 2007; its Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer joined the Company in 1991 as Senior Vice President and Manager of the SBA Department, and was promoted to his current position in April 2007; and its Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer joined the Company in July 2007. While the President and Chief Executive Officer has a 3-year employment agreement for a term beginning in January 2007, his employment may be terminated by him or by the Company at any time. None of the Company’s other officers have employment agreements. The Company’s earnings are subject to interest rate risk, especially if rates fall. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for products and services. The Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Given the current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, the interest rate spread could be expected to decrease during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to increase during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse or a positive effect on results of operations. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Interest Rate Risk.” 25 Table of Contents Center Financial’s and the Bank’s directors and executive officers control a large amount of the Company’s stock and shareholders’ interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 23.0% of Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they would be able to significantly affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Center Financial. In some situations, the interests of Center Financial’s directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, Center Financial’s board of directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions contained in Center Financial’s Articles of Incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or its management. These provisions include: • the elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • a requirement that the Company’s board of directors consider the potential social and economic effects on the Bank’s employees, depositors, customers and the communities served as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of Center Financial; and These provisions may make it more difficult for another company to acquire the Company, which could reduce the market price of the company’s common stock and the price that the shareholder may ultimately receive when their stock is sold. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. The Company’s compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of its activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require the Company to maintain adequate capital to support its growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the Company’s cost of compliance could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are now applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. In addition, as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Center Financial is subject to certain additional restrictions on its dividend and repurchase activities and compensation arrangements, and the U.S. Congress or federal bank regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system which may apply to all banking institutions, or may instead be more specifically targeted at TARP Capital Purchase Program participants. 26 Table of Contents The Company may incur additional costs for environmental clean up. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages or penalties associated with environmental problems could increase the Company’s operating expenses. If a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company will often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. The Company also could be compelled to assume the management responsibilities of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on their loans. The Company also leases premises for its branch operations and corporate office in locations where environmental problems may exist. Although the Company has lending and facility leasing guidelines intended to identify properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of these properties. As a result, environmental laws could force the Company to clean up the hazardous waste located on these properties (at the Company’s expense) and cost might exceed their fair market value. Further, even if environmental laws did not hold the Company responsible for the environmental clean up of such properties, it might be difficult or impossible to sell properties until the environmental problems were remediated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 