ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of those risks actually occurs, our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this annual report. 28 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Pending Cumulus Merger We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Cumulus Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the pending Cumulus Merger on our employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Cumulus Merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to defer decisions concerning us, or to seek to change existing business relationships with us. If key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles and the potential complexities of integration, our business, or the combined company’s business following the Cumulus Merger, could be harmed. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from making acquisitions or dispositions and taking other specified actions without the consent of Cumulus until the Cumulus Merger occurs. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities or address other developments that may arise prior to the completion of the Cumulus Merger. Failure to complete the Cumulus Merger could negatively affect the stock price and the future business and financial results of the Company. Consummation of the Cumulus Merger is conditioned, among other things, on the (i) adoption of the merger agreement by our stockholders (voting together as a single class), (ii) absence of certain legal impediments to the consummation of the Cumulus Merger, (iii) effectiveness of a Form S-4 registration statement to be filed by Cumulus and (iv) receipt of certain regulatory approvals regarding the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, including expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval by the FCC. There is no assurance that the Company and Cumulus will receive the necessary regulatory or stockholder approvals or satisfy the other conditions to the completion of the Cumulus Merger. If the Cumulus Merger is not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • We may be required to pay significant transaction costs related to the Cumulus Merger, including under certain circumstances, a termination fee of up to $80 million payable to Cumulus, and many of our costs relating to the Cumulus Merger (such as legal, accounting, and a portion of our financial advisory fees) are payable by the Company whether or not the Cumulus Merger is completed; • The current market price of our common stock and warrants may reflect a market assumption that the Cumulus Merger will occur, and a failure to complete the Cumulus Merger could result in a negative perception by the market of the Company generally and a resulting decline in the market price of our common stock and warrants; • There may be substantial disruption to our business and a distraction of its management and employees from day-to-day operations, because matters related to the Cumulus Merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that could have been beneficial; and • We would continue to face the risks that we currently face as an independent company, as further described herein. If the Cumulus Merger is not completed, the risks described above may materialize and materially adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition, and stock price. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Cumulus Merger. The merger agreement prohibits us from soliciting, initiating or encouraging alternative merger or acquisition proposals with any third party. These provisions may limit our ability to pursue a proposal from a third party. 29 Table of Contents There may be a long delay between the receipt of our necessary stockholder approval for the Cumulus Merger and the closing of the transaction, during which time we will lose the ability to consider and pursue alternative acquisition proposals, which might otherwise be superior to the Cumulus Merger. Following our stockholder approval, the merger agreement prohibits us from taking any actions to review, consider or recommend any alternative acquisition proposals, including those that could be superior to our stockholders, when compared to the Cumulus Merger. Given the potentially long delay between stockholder approval and antitrust and FCC clearance, the time during which we could be prevented from reviewing, considering or recommending such proposals could be significant. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is highly dependent on spending by advertisers. Advertising spending in the United States has declined significantly from its peak levels and there is no assurance that the radio broadcasting market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn. Since virtually all of our net revenue is generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, and the net revenue of our Radio Network segment is also dependent on national advertising, the recent downturn in the United States economy had a material adverse impact on our revenue and profit margins. A continued slowdown or additional downturn in the U.S. economy could have a significant adverse impact on us, as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by continuing local or regional economic downturns. The current state of the economy could also adversely affect our ability to collect accounts receivable from advertisers. In addition, a significant percentage of our advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising to the automotive, financial services, and retail industries. These industries have been adversely affected by the downturn in our economy, and a significant decrease in these revenues in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may lose audience ratings, market share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our business is broken down into two reportable segments: our Radio Markets and our Radio Network. Both segments of our business compete for audiences, creative and performing talent, broadcast rights, market share and advertiser support with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, other syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, Internet radio, the Internet and hand-held programmable devices, such as iPods and cellular phones. Adverse changes in audience ratings, internet traffic and market share could lead to a loss of our listenership base and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Any adverse change in a particular market or in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, or any adverse change in listeners’ preferences could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future or offer syndicated programming that competes with our programming, and these companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we do. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, or a station may adopt a format to compete directly with us for audiences and advertisers. These tactics could result in lower ratings, listenership or lower market share and, hence, lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, could lower our earnings and cash flow. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic changes, personnel or other programming changes, a decline in broadcast listening trends or other reasons. We may not be able to adapt to these changes or trends, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We may lose key on-air talent to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors. The Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for creative and performing on-air talent with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other providers of syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, cable television, satellite television, the Internet and satellite radio. Our employees and other on-air talent are subject to change and may be lost to competitors or for other reasons. Any adverse changes in particular programs, formats or on-air talent could have a material adverse effect on our ratings and our ability to attract local and/or national advertisers, which would negatively impact our revenues, or could require increased expenses. Future losses could be caused by future asset impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill. In previous years, we have incurred significant non-cash impairment losses with regard to our indefinite-lived intangible assets. As a result of fresh-start reporting, FCC licenses were revalued to $893.6 million, and goodwill was revalued to $763.8 million. As of December 31, 2010, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 69% of our consolidated total assets. The valuation of intangible assets is subjective and based on estimates rather than precise calculations. If actual future results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we may be exposed to impairment charges in the future. The fair value measurements for both our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets use significant unobservable inputs which reflect our own assumptions about the estimates that market participants would use in measuring fair value including assumptions about risk. Given the current economic environment and uncertainties surrounding the potential negative impact on our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions regarding the duration of the economic downturn, or the period and strength of recovery, made for the purpose of our non-amortizable intangible fair value estimates, will prove to be accurate. Interim and/or annual impairment testing, as applicable, could result in future impairment losses. The fair value of FCC licenses and goodwill is primarily dependent on the expected future cash flows of the Radio Markets and Radio Network. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the FCC licenses or goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, the Company may be required to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could result in future impairment losses are further discussed in the section entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” within Item 7. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms. We sometimes enter into long-term contracts in the ordinary course of business for both the acquisition and distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for both the acquisition and distribution of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, contracts for the distribution of programming to satellite operators and contracts relating to programming produced by third parties on our stations and by our network business. As these contracts expire, the parties must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose these rights, the related programming and related revenue. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than in the past) or the revenue from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than in the past). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the terms of the contracts will depend on a number of factors beyond our control, including the strength of advertising markets, the effectiveness of marketing efforts, the size of viewer audiences, and the related contract expenses and costs. There can be no assurance that revenue from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. 31 Table of Contents The loss of affiliation agreements by our Radio Network could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our Radio Network has approximately 4,000 station affiliates and 9,000 program affiliations. It receives advertising inventory from its affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a specified time period or commercials inserted by the Radio Network into its programming. In addition, primarily with respect to satellite radio providers, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of network affiliation agreements of the Radio Network could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through reduction of advertising revenue. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the Internet to originate and/or distribute our station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. If we lose key executive officers, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our businesses depend upon the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior management team. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current management team. We believe that the skills and experience possessed by our senior management team would be difficult to replace, and the loss of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. Each of our named executive officers (other than Ms. Glassman and Mr. Suleman) may terminate his or her employment within 90 days following Mr. Suleman’s ceasing to serve as our chief executive officer by reason of his termination by us without cause or upon his resignation and be entitled to a payment under his or her employment agreement. We also believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. To remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and trends, which could cause listeners to shift their time away from traditional radio to alternative formats. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies and may allow us to adapt to new trends. Various new media technologies and services have been developed and have emerged, including: • Satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which provides subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; • Audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, content available over the Internet and other digital audio broadcast formats; 32 Table of Contents • High definition radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; • Low power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets that are designed to serve small, localized areas; and • iPod or similar personal communication devices. Although the radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in automobiles, as a result, in part, of an increasingly large human population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times, we cannot guarantee that this historical growth will continue. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory changes may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations, some of which could result in the imposition of significant costs and expenses not previously part of our business operations. Our businesses depend upon licenses issued by the FCC, and if licenses were not renewed or we were to be out of compliance with FCC regulations and policies, our business would be materially impaired. Our businesses depend upon maintaining their broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are currently issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. In the last renewal cycle, all of our licenses were renewed; however, we cannot be certain that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations, could result in material impairment and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If any of our FCC licenses is not renewed, it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Further, the FCC has a general policy restricting the transferability of a station license while a renewal application for that station is pending, although FCC policy generally permits license assignments and transfers in transactions involving multiple markets to proceed, notwithstanding the pendency of one or more license renewal applications, and the parties will request application of this policy with respect to the Cumulus Merger. In addition, we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies governing the ownership and operation of our radio stations, including the prohibition on certain payments to our employees, commonly referred to as “payola,” which could result in increased costs associated with the adoption and implementation of stricter compliance procedures at our broadcast facilities or FCC fines. FCC regulations also limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our businesses. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time, and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. For further details on federal regulation of radio broadcasting, see “Business—Federal Regulation of Radio Broadcasting.” We may be adversely affected by the FCC’s more rigorous enforcement of its indecency regulations against the broadcast industry as well as by the increased amounts of the potential fines. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole, and 33 Table of Contents violations of these rules may result in fines or, in some instances, revocation of an FCC license. The FCC also imposes separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance” within a program. In addition, the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation was increased to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of up to $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. We cannot predict the outcome of these court proceedings or whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. In the ordinary course of business, we have received complaints or the FCC has initiated inquiries about whether a limited number of our radio stations have broadcast indecent programming. To the extent these inquiries or other proceedings by the FCC result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. We are currently in the process of negotiating music licensing agreements with certain performing rights organizations and as a result our royalty fees may increase. Effective December 31, 2009, our radio music license agreements with the two largest performance rights organizations, American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”) and Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), expired. The Radio Music License Committee (“RMLC”), which negotiates music licensing fees for most of the radio industry with ASCAP and BMI, had reached an agreement with these organizations on a temporary fee schedule that reflects a provisional discount of 7.0% against 2009 fee levels. The temporary fee reductions became effective in January 2010. Absent an agreement on long-term fees between the RMLC and ASCAP and BMI, the U.S. District Court in New York has the authority to make an interim and permanent fee ruling for the new contract period. In May 2010 and June 2010, the U.S. District Court’s judges charged with determining the licenses fees ruled to further reduce interim fees paid to ASCAP and BMI, respectively, down approximately another 11.0% from the previous temporary fees negotiated with the RMLC. When the license fee negotiations are finalized, the rate will be retroactive to January 1, 2010, and the amounts could be greater or less than the temporary fees and could be material to our financial results and cash flows. Proposed legislation requires radio broadcasters to pay royalties to record labels and recording artists. Legislation was introduced in the last Congressional session that would require radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. The legislation failed to pass, but is expected to be reintroduced in the next Congress. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music, Inc., the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers and SESAC, Inc. The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. In addition, radio and recording industry representatives have entered into negotiations which may result in an agreement to resolve the performance fee issue. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, whether industry groups will enter into an agreement with respect to fees, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. The FTC, DOJ and FCC carefully review proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, FTC and/or FCC will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations in any market where we already have a significant position. 34 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially impact the Company’s operations in specific geographic areas, as well as nationally, and it may decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease the Company’s revenue or expose it to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. In addition, an act of God or a natural disaster could adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. For example, Hurricane Katrina and the aftermath left in its wake significantly impacted the operations of our New Orleans radio cluster. Due to various market and financial conditions, we may not be able to successfully complete future dispositions of our radio stations or future acquisitions of other radio stations. We engage in strategic sales of our radio stations, as it makes financial sense to do so and meets our overall business needs, and have also been required by the FCC to divest certain of our radio stations. However, in light of the current financial and economic market conditions, both in the radio industry and in the overall U.S. economy, our consummation of future radio station dispositions, even those required divestitures, may be very difficult, and our ability to consummate future dispositions is uncertain. In addition, we pursue strategic acquisitions of individual radio stations and groups of radio stations in order to grow. However, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain, as we may not be able to secure the necessary financing to make additional future acquisitions and may face constraints posed by the FCC cross ownership rules. Our business is dependent on our ability to access the capital markets. We have been required, and may in the future be required, to access debt and capital markets to obtain funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and share repurchases. The debt and capital markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption from time to time in the future, resulting in higher credit spreads in the capital markets and higher funding costs for us. The cost of accessing debt and capital markets has fluctuated in recent periods, and lenders and institutional investors could require higher rates of return as a result. Lenders have also tightened lending standards, and reduced or ceased their lending to certain borrowers. Deterioration in our business performance, a credit rating downgrade, changes in financial services regulations or adverse changes in the economy could lead to reductions in debt availability and could limit our ability to obtain financings from debt or capital sources or negatively affect the costs or terms on which we may be able to obtain capital, any of which could adversely affect our liquidity, operations and financial condition. Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. Our Credit Facilities and Senior Notes contain financial and other restrictive non-financial covenants, which, among other things, and with certain exceptions, limit our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; consummate asset sales, acquisitions or mergers; make investments; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; and pay dividends or repurchase stock. Our continued ability to meet the requirements of the covenants in the Credit Facilities and Senior Notes can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with these covenants. A breach of any of our covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facilities or the Senior Notes. Upon the occurrence of certain defaults under our Credit Facilities or Senior Notes, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate commitments to extend further credit under our Revolving Loan. If the lenders under our 35 Table of Contents Credit Facilities or the trustee for our Senior Notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets or access to lenders or capital markets to repay or fund the repayment of any amounts outstanding under our Credit Facilities or our Senior Notes. In addition, the indenture governing our outstanding Senior Notes contains covenants that may require us to offer to repurchase outstanding Senior Notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indenture). We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered Senior Notes in that event, which could result in a default under the Senior Notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event. Risks Relating to the Chapter 11 Proceedings Our actual financial results may vary significantly from the projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court. In connection with our Emergence Plan, we were required to prepare a disclosure statement containing financial information that demonstrated the feasibility of the Emergence Plan and our ability to continue operations upon our emergence from bankruptcy. The information in the disclosure statement and our public filings, including projected financial information and estimates of value, was prepared by us. As indicated in the disclosure statement with respect to the Emergence Plan and the exhibits thereto, the projected financial information and various estimates of value therein discussed should not be regarded as representations or warranties by us or any other person as to the accuracy of such information or that any such projections or valuations will be realized. This information was not audited or reviewed by independent accountants. Those projections and estimates of value have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis. They reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance and with respect to prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were, and remain, beyond our control, and such assumptions may no longer be true or may not be true in the future. Projections and estimates of valuation are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks, and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may be wrong in a material respect. Actual results may have varied significantly from those contemplated by the projections and/or valuation estimates. We may be subject to claims that were not discharged in the Chapter 11 Proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. Substantially all of the claims against us that arose prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing were resolved during our Chapter 11 Proceedings. Subject to certain exceptions (such as certain employee and customer claims) and as set forth in the Emergence Plan, all claims against and interests in us that arose prior to the initiation of our Chapter 11 Proceedings are (1) subject to compromise and/or treatment under the Emergence Plan or (2) discharged, in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code and terms of the Emergence Plan. Pursuant to the terms of the Emergence Plan, the provisions of the Emergence Plan constitute a good faith compromise or settlement of all such claims and the entry of the order confirming the Emergence Plan constitutes the Bankruptcy Court’s approval of the compromise or settlement arrived at with respect to all such claims. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to our bankruptcy filing may not have been discharged include instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the bankruptcy filing. There may be additional claims and interests in us that were not discharged. We are not aware of any such claims, but can provide no assurance that such claims do not exist or that the impact of any such claims would not be material. Because our consolidated financial statements reflect fresh-start reporting adjustments made upon emergence from bankruptcy, and because of the effects of the transactions that became effective pursuant to the Emergence Plan, financial information in the post-emergence financial statements is not comparable to our financial information from prior periods. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh-start reporting pursuant to which our reorganization value, which represents the fair value of the entity before considering liabilities and approximates 36 Table of Contents the amount a willing buyer would pay for the assets of the entity immediately after the reorganization, was allocated to the fair value of assets. The amount remaining after allocation of the reorganization value to the fair value of identified tangible and intangible assets is reflected as goodwill, which is subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. Further, under fresh-start reporting, the accumulated losses included in stockholders’ deficit were eliminated. In addition to fresh-start reporting, our consolidated financial statements reflect all effects of the transactions contemplated by the Emergence Plan. Thus, our balance sheets and statements of operations data are not comparable in many respects to our consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start reporting and prior to accounting for the effects of the reorganization. We cannot be certain that the Chapter 11 Proceedings will not adversely affect our operations going forward. Although we emerged from bankruptcy upon consummation of the Emergence Plan, we cannot assure you that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations going forward, including our ability to negotiate favorable terms from suppliers, hedging counterparties and others and to attract and retain talent, employees and customers. The failure to obtain such favorable terms and retain talent, employees and customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have significant tax assets, usage of which may be subject to limitations in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $225.7 million of net operating losses for U.S federal income tax purposes. However, our Chapter 11 Proceedings resulted in a change of control for purposes of Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, limiting our ability to utilize approximately $150 million of our net operating losses to offset future federal income tax liabilities. We estimate that the amount of limited net operating losses that we may use in each year through 2030 to offset federal income tax liabilities is approximately $50 million. We expect to increase this amount for certain recognized built-in gains. However, the amount of the increase is uncertain and varies by year. Risks Related to Our Common Stock An active, liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop. There has been no active public market for shares of our class A common stock or our class B common stock. However, each class of our common stock is currently quoted by the Pink OTC Markets Inc., a real-time quotation service for over-the-counter equity securities. As such, our class A common stock and class B common stock may have smaller markets, lower trading volumes and larger spreads between bid and asked prices than securities listed on an established public trading market. These factors may result in higher price volatility and less market liquidity for our class A common stock and class B common stock. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly. The trading price of each class of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • a smaller trading market for shares of our common stock; • market conditions in the broader stock market; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and results of operations; • introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • investor perceptions of us and the radio industry; 37 Table of Contents • operating performance of our competitors; • sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; • additions or departures of key personnel; • regulatory or political developments; • litigation and governmental investigations; and • changing economic conditions. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could reduce the price of our common stock and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress our market price. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, publish research or reports containing negative information about our business, adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our price or the trading volume of our common stock to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, the price of our common could decline. Some provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us and diminish the value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for, among other things: • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and the business that can be conducted at such meeting; • restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to remove a director or fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a prohibition of action by written consent of stockholders unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. 38 Table of Contents We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an “interested stockholder,” unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company that is in the best interest of our non-controlling stockholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Applicable FCC laws, rules and regulations may make it difficult to effect a change in control of us. The Communications Act, the rules, regulations and policies promulgated by the FCC (“FCC Regulations”) and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation limit (i) the ownership or voting of more than 20% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock by or for the account of aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country (collectively “Aliens”), or by any other entity (a) that is subject to or deemed to be subject to management influence by Aliens or (b) the equity of which is owned, controlled by, or held for the benefit of, Aliens in a manner that would cause the Company to be in violation of the Communications Act or the FCC Regulations; (ii) prohibit any transfer of the Company’s stock which would cause more than 20% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock to be owned or voted by or for any person or entity designated in foregoing clause (i) and (iii) prohibit the ownership, voting or transfer of any portion of its outstanding capital stock to the extent the ownership, voting or transfer of such portion would cause the Company to violate or otherwise result in violation of any provision of the Communications Act or the FCC Regulations. In addition, pursuant to our restated certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may cause us to redeem capital stock to the extent necessary to bring the Company into compliance with the Communications Act or the FCC Regulations or to prevent the loss of the Company’s FCC licenses. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. We have not paid regular or quarterly dividends since our emergence from the Chapter 11 Proceedings and may not in the future. We have not paid regular or quarterly dividends since our emergence from the Chapter 11 Proceedings. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors including our financial condition and net income, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, contractual limitations (including those imposed by our Credit Agreement, which are discussed below) and such other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. Our Credit Agreement contains a covenant restricting the payment of dividends by us, which is subject to a number of specific exceptions. There can be no assurance of future cash flows from our wholly-owned subsidiaries to pay dividends. Further, we cannot assure you when, whether or at what level we will resume paying dividends on our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 