ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness We are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. We have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. With the completion of Wynn Las Vegas, as of December 31, 2005, we have total outstanding debt of approximately $2.1 billion. If the Encore Budget, Plans and Specs are approved in accordance with our loan documents, we will be able to incur up to an additional $590.0 million under the credit facilities to fund the construction of Encore. In addition our credit agreement will permit us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future. Lastly, our credit facilities for the development and construction of Wynn Macau will, subject to certain circumstances, allow us to incur up to $672.0 million (as of December 31, 2005) of additional debt to complete Wynn Macau. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example: • if we do not complete construction of each phase of Wynn Macau by the scheduled completion dates, or if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. These rights and remedies include rights to: • repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, • initiate judicial foreclosure against us, • petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets, and • if we are insolvent, initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, in each case, subject to procedural restraints and limitations applicable to secured creditors generally and also those imposed by applicable gaming laws, rules and regulations; • we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the Wynn Las Vegas operations to service and amortize our Wynn Las Vegas indebtedness and to pay development costs of Encore, which will reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • we may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund development and construction costs of Encore, satisfy working capital requirements, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; 19 • under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; Under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. The agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: • pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; • incur additional debt; • make investments; • create liens on assets to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • issue stock of, or member’s interests in, subsidiaries; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • engage in other businesses; • merge or consolidate with another company; • transfer and sell assets; • issue disqualified stock; • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and • designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. The debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include minimum interest coverage and total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. Future indebtedness or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the existing debt facilities. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 20 Our subsidiaries’ indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries’ debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. In the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries’ secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries’ unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. Risks Relating to our Business A downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. A recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our property, could result in fewer customers visiting, or spending less at, our properties, which would adversely affect our revenues. We have a limited operating history. Our operations are subject to the significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by new businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. Because we have a limited operating history, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks compared to a company with an established business. If we are not able to manage these risks successfully, it could negatively impact our operations. We are entirely dependent on one property for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. We do not expect to have material assets or operations other than Wynn Las Vegas until the opening of Wynn Macau in the third quarter of 2006. Until that time, we are entirely dependent upon Wynn Las Vegas for all of our cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: • local economic and competitive conditions; • changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; • natural and other disasters; • an increase in the cost of utilities for Wynn Las Vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in California or other western states with which Nevada shares a single regional power grid or a shortage of natural resources such as water; • a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas; and • a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at Wynn Las Vegas. Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt. Our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. Competition for Wynn Las Vegas. The casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. Resorts located on or near the Las Vegas Strip compete with other Las Vegas Strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in Las Vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of 21 amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size. Wynn Las Vegas also competes with a large number of other hotels located in and near Las Vegas, as well as other resort destinations. Some of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. Wynn Las Vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and in Atlantic City, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on Native American lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, Internet gaming and other forms of gaming. The continued proliferation of Native American gaming in California could have a negative impact on our operations. The proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. In particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas, such as New York, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Boston, from which we attract customers, could have a substantial negative effect on our business. In addition, new or renovated casinos in Macau or elsewhere in Asia could draw Asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from Wynn Las Vegas. Competition for Wynn Macau. The Macau government has granted concessions to operate casinos to three companies. Two sub-concessions have also been granted and additional subconcessions are expected. The three concessionaires and two sub-concessionaires currently operate 17 casinos in Macau. On March 4, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with PBL pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell to PBL a subconcession to operate casino games in Macau. The transaction is subject to the approval of the Macau government. PBL, in partnership with Melco, is currently constructing the Crown Macau on Taipa and has announced the City of Dreams project in Cotai. SJM, controlled by Stanley Ho, who through another entity controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in Macau for more than 40 years, is one of the concessionaires and operates 15 of the 17 casinos that are currently operating in Macau. SJM is also constructing the Grand Lisboa, a resort opposite the rear entrance of the Hotel Lisboa, one of the main competitors in Macau gaming. Las Vegas Sands opened the Sands Macao in May 2004 and is currently building the Venetian Macao Resort, an all-suites hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a Venetian-style theme similar to that of their Las Vegas property. In addition, MGM MIRAGE is building the MGM Grand Macau, a resort on the Macau peninsula adjacent to Wynn Macau, jointly owned and operated by MGM MIRAGE and Pansy Ho Chiu-king (Stanley Ho’s daughter). Wynn Macau will face additional competition from ongoing development in Macau and from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and casinos to be developed in Singapore, South Korea and the Philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot parlors in Japan. Wynn Macau will also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, such as Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in Thailand or Penghu, Taiwan are successful or if the reported large-scale new casino entertainment complex proposed in Manila, Philippines is developed, Wynn Macau will face additional regional competition. Our business relies on high-end, international customers to whom we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. General. A significant portion of our table game revenue at Wynn Las Vegas is, and at Wynn Macau will be, attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. The loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. A downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. This credit is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of 22 gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. In addition, the collectibility of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. We will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. Wynn Las Vegas. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the United States Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the United States of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Wynn Macau. Although the law in Macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, Wynn Macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. We expect that Wynn Macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent that gaming customers of Wynn Macau are expected to be visitors from other jurisdictions, Wynn Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and Wynn Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Wynn Macau’s inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. Currently, the gaming tax in Macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. However, unlike Nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in Macau does not include deductions for credit losses. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we would have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax laws in Macau, there can be no assurance that the laws will be changed. We are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. General. The operation of Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau is contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. We received all approvals and opened Wynn Las Vegas on April 28, 2005, however, we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. We will open Wynn Macau in the third quarter of 2006, however, failure to obtain or maintain the necessary approvals could prevent or delay the completion or opening of all or part of the facilities. Wynn Las Vegas. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own Wynn Resorts’ securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. 23 Nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. The suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. Wynn Resorts’ articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, Wynn Resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. The redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as Wynn Resorts elects. Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau’s operations will be subject to unique risks, including risks related to Macau’s developing regulatory framework. Wynn Macau may need to develop operating procedures which are different from those used in United States casinos. Failure to adapt to the regulatory and gaming environment in Macau could result in the revocation of Wynn Macau, S.A.’s concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in Macau. Moreover, we would be subject to the risk that Macau’s gaming regulatory framework will not develop in a way that would permit us as a United States gaming operator, to conduct operations in Macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the Nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the United States. Our subconcession sale is also subject to the approval of the Macau government. There are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may prevent completion of Encore and/or Wynn Macau on schedule and within budget. Major construction projects of the scope and scale of Encore and Wynn Macau entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials or skilled labor; • unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; and • unavailability of construction equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of Encore and/or Wynn Macau. We anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor’s work and payment for all of that subcontractor’s labor and materials. These bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. We have not yet entered into a final agreement with a general contractor or any trade contractors with respect to the construction of Encore. We may not agree with general or trade contractors on financial and other terms that will meet our forecasted $1.74 billion cost budget and schedule. Encore and/or Wynn Macau may not commence operations on schedule or that construction costs for these projects will not exceed budgeted amounts. Failure to complete any of these projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. 24 Simultaneous construction of our Wynn Macau and Encore Projects may stretch management time and resources and may impact Wynn Las Vegas. Both the construction of Wynn Macau and the development and preconstruction efforts for Encore continue. Since there is significant overlap of the development and construction of these projects, members of our senior management are simultaneously involved in planning and developing both of these projects. Constructing Wynn Macau simultaneously with the planned development and construction of Encore may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of any one project. Management’s inability to devote sufficient time and attention to any one project may delay the construction or opening of any, or all of the projects. Any delay caused by such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business and operations. In addition, although we intend to construct Encore with minimal impact on Wynn Las Vegas, we cannot assure you that the construction will not disrupt the operations of Wynn Las Vegas or that it will be implemented as planned. Therefore, the construction of Encore may adversely impact the business, operations and revenues of Wynn Las Vegas. Terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. The strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau offer. Changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the United States and elsewhere, military conflicts in Iraq and in the Middle East, and past outbreaks of infectious disease have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. We cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. An extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. In particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. In addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. Negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. We currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to Wynn Las Vegas and Wynn Macau for up to $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of losses that could result from these acts. However, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. In addition, insurance premiums have increased on available coverage, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. We may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. In the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverages we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. 25 If a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the Wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. We have filed applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), to register a variety of WYNN-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. These marks include “WYNN LAS VEGAS” and “WYNN MACAU.” Some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. A common element of these marks is the use of the surname, “WYNN.” As a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired “secondary meaning.” To date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the PTO such secondary meaning for the Wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon Mr. Wynn’s prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. Even if we are able to obtain registration of the WYNN-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. Third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. If a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. Historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. However, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. It is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. The defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business. The loss of Stephen A. Wynn could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of Stephen A. Wynn, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and one of the principal stockholders of Wynn Resorts. In 2004, we extended the term of Mr. Wynn’s employment agreement until October 2017. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Wynn will remain with us. If we lose the services of Mr. Wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. In addition, if Mr. Wynn is no longer either employed by us as Chief Executive Officer or serving as Chairman of the Board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require Wynn Las Vegas to offer to repay the First Mortgage Notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and Wynn Macau, S.A.’s credit facilities. Our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc. each own slightly less than 25% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, virtually are able to control all matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., together with Baron Asset Fund, have entered into a stockholders’ agreement. Under the stockholders’ agreement, Mr. Wynn and Aruze USA, Inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by 26 Mr. Wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by Aruze USA, Inc. As a result of this voting arrangement, Mr. Wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. We have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. As an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. In connection with the demolition of the existing buildings situated on the 20-acre parcel where we intend to construct Encore, we discovered a small amount of asbestos which we incurred costs to dispose of appropriately. We may be required to incur costs to remediate other potential environmental hazards or to mitigate environmental risks in the future. Risks Associated with Wynn Macau A number of new casino resort developments underway or planned for the near future will require us to compete for limited labor resources in Macau. We will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before Wynn Macau opens and retain them in order to have a successful operation. Wynn Macau will compete with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in Macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. We may have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff Wynn Macau. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for Wynn Macau. The development costs of Wynn Macau are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. We expect the total development costs of Wynn Macau to be approximately $1.2 billion, including the budgeted design and construction costs, cost of the land payments (through opening), capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and all financing fees. The required cash interest payments and commitment fees on the bank facility which will become due through the estimated commencement date of operations of Wynn Macau have been included in our estimate of the total development costs. While we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of Wynn Macau is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. Although we have certain owners’ contingencies, a $72.0 million contingent debt facility (which, upon receipt of lender consent will be applied to the casino expansion in phase two and certain suite enhancements) and $30.0 million of contingent equity set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. If these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. 27 Not all of the construction costs of Wynn Macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. We have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of Wynn Macau with Leighton Contractors (Asia) Limited, China State Construction Engineering (Hong Kong) Limited and China Construction Engineering (Macau) Company Limited, acting together as general contractor (“Leighton/China State”). The contract covers approximately $457.2 million of the budgeted $685.0 million design and construction costs for Wynn Macau. We are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. The amended guaranteed maximum price under the Leighton/China State construction contract may increase, and we would be responsible for the amount of any increase. Although we have a $457.2 million guaranteed maximum price construction contract with Leighton/China State for the construction of Wynn Macau, it provides that the guaranteed maximum price will be appropriately increased, and the deadline for the contractor’s obligation to complete construction will be appropriately adjusted, on account of scope changes or delays by us and certain other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If any of these events occurs and the guaranteed maximum price is increased, we may not be able to complete Wynn Macau within the amount budgeted. The financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. Under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, Leighton/China State is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $457.2 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. The parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor’s full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. We cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. Furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. If they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. The success of Wynn Macau will depend on political and economic conditions in Macau. In December 1999, after approximately 450 years of Portuguese control, Portugal returned Macau to Chinese administration. The People’s Republic of China established Macau as a special administrative region. As a result of this change in control, Macau’s legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. We cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of Wynn Macau. Wynn Macau’s operations will be subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market such as China. For example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in Macau, China or the surrounding region could significantly harm Wynn Macau’s business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. 28 Macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. Because of additional casino projects which may be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between Macau and Hong Kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of Wynn Macau, could be negatively impacted. Extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on Wynn Macau. Macau’s subtropical climate and location on the South China Sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. Unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of Wynn Macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing guests from traveling to Macau. Our investment in Macau may be subject to potential taxation. Our investment in Macau is owned through a number of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign entities. Although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the Wynn Macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the Internal Revenue Service could assert that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers. Currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact Wynn Macau. Currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of Wynn Macau. For example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of China. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact Wynn Macau’s gaming operations. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a negative impact on Wynn Macau. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Macau government can terminate our subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable Macau laws. The concession agreement expressly provides that the government of Macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if Wynn Macau, S.A.: • conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; • suspends gaming operations in Macau for more than seven consecutive days without justification; • defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; • does not comply with government inspections or supervision; • systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; • fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; 29 • is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; • engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or • repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. If the government of Macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, Wynn Macau, S.A. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under Macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of Wynn Macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. The loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We will stop generating any revenues from our Macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. Our concession agreement expires in June 2022. Unless our concession is extended, on that date, all of our casino operations and related equipment in Macau will be automatically transferred to the Macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. Beginning in December 2017, the Macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. The Macau government has the ability to grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and two sub-concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau, and the Macau government is precluded from granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. However, we cannot assure you that the laws will not be changed to permit the Macau government to grant additional gaming concessions before 2009. MGM Mirage’s joint venture has obtained a subconcession under SJM’s existing concession. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain Nevada gaming laws would apply to Wynn Macau’s planned gaming activities and associations. Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. As we develop Wynn Macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in Nevada will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in Macau proposed to be conducted by our Macau-related subsidiaries. We and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Gaming Commission if our Macau-related subsidiaries: • knowingly violate any Macau laws relating to their Macau gaming operations; • fail to conduct Wynn Macau’s operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations; • engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary to Nevada gaming policies; 30 • engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or • employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. Such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries, including Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, and the imposition of substantial fines. In addition, if the Nevada State Gaming Control Board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our Macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the Nevada State Gaming Control Board can require us and our licensed Nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the Nevada Gaming Commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. If the Nevada Gaming Commission finds that the activity or association in Macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our Macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada Gaming Commission find that our Macau-related subsidiaries’ gaming activities or associations in Macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in Macau, or be required to divest their investment in Macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase Wynn Macau’s obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in Macau. The currency delineated in Wynn Macau’s concession agreement with the government of Macau is the Macau pataca. The Macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in Chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the linkage of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Hong Kong dollar, and the Macau pataca will continue to be linked to the U.S. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. We also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. Because many of Wynn Macau’s payment and expenditure obligations are in Macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable Macau pataca or Hong Kong dollar rate changes, Wynn Macau’s obligations, as denominated in U.S. dollars, would increase. In addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that Wynn Macau operates in Macau will be in Hong Kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar. Also, if any of our Macau-related entities incur U.S. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Macau pataca or the Hong Kong dollar, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could have adverse effects on Wynn Macau’s ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. The sale of our subconcession is subject to the approval of the Macau government. Risks Associated with the Development of Encore There are conditions precedent to the funding of the remaining components of the financing for Encore. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $175.4 million in remaining net proceeds from the offering of our First Mortgage Notes held in a notes proceeds account, and availability under our credit facilities, 31 which we intend to use to fund construction of Encore. We expect that the remaining proceeds from the First Mortgage Notes, together with availability under the credit facilities and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to fund Encore project costs of up to $1.52 billion without incurring additional debt or receiving additional capital contributions from Wynn Resorts. We have entered into a disbursement agreement with the agent under the credit facilities and the trustee under the indenture for the First Mortgage Notes, which sets forth the sequence of funding and establishes conditions for the disbursement of funds for the Wynn Las Vegas and Encore projects. Our ability to borrow, from time to time, under the credit facilities and receive advances from the notes proceeds account is subject to various conditions precedent set forth in the disbursement agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time drawdowns are required to make payments of our construction costs. Satisfaction of various conditions is subject to the discretion of the disbursement agent and the lenders under the credit facilities and/or their consultants and agent and may therefore be beyond our control. Failure to satisfy the conditions to the drawdowns under the credit facilities could impact our ability to develop and construct Encore. We may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct Encore on satisfactory terms or at all. Availability under our credit facilities will be reduced by $550.0 million if the Encore Budget, Plans and Specs are not approved by March 31, 2006. Our credit facilities provide that a majority of the arrangers or a majority of the lenders under the credit facilities must approve the Encore Budget, Plans and Specs on or before March 31, 2006. If the Encore Budget, Plans and Specs are not approved by such date, availability under the new credit facilities will be reduced by $550.0 million. We will submit required documentation to our lenders on March 15, 2006, and will seek necessary consents and approvals from our lenders. We cannot assure you that the Encore Budget, Plans and Specs will be satisfactory to the arrangers or lenders under our credit facilities. Such decisions are subject to lender discretion and are beyond our control. If we do not have this availability under the credit facilities or are unable to obtain the required consents, we may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct Encore on satisfactory terms or at all. We intend to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of Encore and our substantial debt service and other obligations with cash flows generated at Wynn Las Vegas, which may not be sufficient to fund such development costs and debt service obligations. Our ability to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of Encore, and to make interest payments under the credit facilities, the notes and any other indebtedness, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations at Wynn Las Vegas. We cannot assure you that Wynn Las Vegas will continue to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs and make the interest payments under the new credit facilities, the First Mortgage Notes and any other indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors, including: • our operating performance; • the demand for services that we provide; • general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting Nevada or the hotel/casino industry in particular; • our ability to hire and retain employees at a reasonable cost; • competition; and • legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. 32 Some of these factors are beyond our control. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund the development of Encore or meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the financing documents for our Wynn Macau project contain restrictions on the distribution to Wynn Resorts of any cash flow generated by the Wynn Macau casino. Thus, any cash flow generated by Wynn Macau may not be available to fund development costs of Encore or service our debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 