ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors (in addition to others) could have a material impact on our business: The Company amended its Senior Credit and Term Facility to suspend its financial covenants for 2009; however, the amendment imposes certain new covenants for 2009 and 2010, including, but not limited to, that we have at least $150 million of available cash as of January 15, 2010 and that the remaining convertible subordinated notes be amended by January 15, 2010 to provide for a maturity date on or after September 30, 2014. We cannot assure you that we will meet any or all of these covenants, particularly the 2010 covenants. Should we default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated, and we may need to obtain an additional amendment or waiver from lenders or reorganize our capital structure As of December 31, 2008, the Company was in compliance with its covenants under the Senior Credit and Term Facility. However, the expected continuing decline in radio revenues in the first half of 2009 and the projected decline in operating profits created uncertainty regarding the Company’s ability to continue to comply 27 Table of Contents with its debt covenants through 2009. As a result, on March 26, 2009, the Company entered into the Fourth Amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of June 12, 2007, as amended, among the Company and several lenders (the “Fourth Amendment”). The Fourth Amendment modifies various terms of the Senior Credit and Term Facility, including suspending certain financial covenants through 2009 while imposing new monthly covenants for 2009. The Fourth Amendment also requires the Company to have at least $150 million of available cash as of January 15, 2010 and that the remaining convertible subordinated notes be amended by January 15, 2010 to provide for a maturity date on or after September 30, 2014, among other things. Additionally, as of the quarter ended March 31, 2010, the Company would be required to comply with the financial leverage covenant required prior to the Fourth Amendment under section 13.1 of the Senior Credit and Term Facility at a rate of 7.75 to 1.0, reducing to 7.25 to 1.0 on June 30, 2010, and further reducing to 6.75 to 1.0 on December 31, 2010. The Fourth Amendment also requires that if the Company’s cash exceeds $30,000,000 at any time, then the Company must put the amount in excess of $30,000,000 into a cash collateral account for the benefit of the Company’s lenders. The Company will not have access to the cash collateral account to operate its business, fulfill its obligations, or to otherwise meet its liquidity needs without the consent of certain of the lenders. Based on the current economic and capital markets and the continuing decline in radio revenues, it will be difficult for the Company to meet these requirements in 2010, especially those commencing on January 15, 2010. If we fail to do so, we will be in default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility and would also be in default under the terms of our convertible subordinated notes. Should we default, our indebtedness may be accelerated, we will likely not be able to satisfy these obligations, and we may need to either obtain an additional amendment or waiver from lenders or reorganize our capital structure. In the event we default on our Senior Credit and Term Facility, the Company may be required to reorganize its debt and equity structure, which could result in the interests of our public shareholders and debt holders being diluted or eliminated In light of the current economic environment and the possibility of a default under the terms of the Fourth Amendment, the Company may be required to renegotiate its capital and debt structure, including the possibility of a reorganization of our liabilities with our lenders. In the event the Company does restructure, it may result in the interests of the Company’s public shareholders as well as its debt holders being diluted or eliminated. Under our Senior Credit and Term Facility, we are subject to numerous restrictive financial and other covenants that may limit our operational flexibility In addition to debt service requirements, our Senior Credit and Term Facility imposes many restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may significantly limit our operational flexibility. These restrictions limit or entirely prohibit us from, among other things, incurring additional indebtedness, paying dividends on and repurchasing common stock, making other restricted payments, selling or transferring our assets, making certain investments, continuing to repurchase the Company’s remaining subordinated convertible debt, or entering into consolidations or mergers. Decreased spending by advertisers and changes in the United States economy has had a material adverse effect on the Company and its business, and a continuing downturn in the economy may have an even greater adverse impact on the Company Since virtually all of our Radio Markets’ net revenue is generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, and the net revenue of our Radio Network is also dependent on national advertising, the recent downturn in the United Stated economy has had a material adverse impact on our revenue and profit margins. A continuing recession or further downturn in the United States economy could have an even greater adverse impact on the Company, as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers has decreased and will continue to decrease our revenue and profit margins and could cause further material adverse effects on 28 Table of Contents the Company and decreases in future periods. In addition, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by continuing local or regional economic downturns. The current state of the economy could also adversely affect our ability to collect accounts receivable from our advertisers. As a result of the economic environment, the Company’s Radio Markets and Radio Network experienced a decline in revenues and operating results during fiscal year 2008. The continuation or worsening of this decline in results of operations could have adverse effects on the Company, some of which may be material. Our ability to fund our operating expenses and debt service obligations going forward will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including the overall economic environment in the United States, potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to fund our operating expenses and pay our debt service obligations or if we default on the Senior Credit and Term Facility and the lenders under our Senior Credit and Term Facility were to accelerate the payment of the Company’s indebtedness, we would be unable to repay in full that indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain a waiver for or cure such default or be able to refinance that indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our operations and financial condition As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $2,059.7 million, consisting of $49.0 million of convertible subordinated notes and $2,010.7 million under our Senior Credit and Term Facility as described in greater detail in the “Senior Debt” section in Item 7 below. In addition to the issues surrounding compliance with debt and the other covenants discussed above, this indebtedness could have other important consequences to us, including limiting our operational flexibility, as well as our ability to dispose of significant assets, invest operating cash flow in our businesses, pay dividends, repurchase shares, obtain additional financing, raise additional capital and compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged, and may increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, changing market conditions and changes in the radio broadcast industry. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for audiences, creative and performing talent, broadcast rights, market share and advertiser support with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet, hand-held programmable devices, such as iPods and cellular phones, and direct mail. Audience ratings, performance-based revenue arrangements and market shares are subject to change, and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that local region, but national advertisers as well. Any adverse change in a particular market or in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, or any adverse change in listeners’ preferences could have a material adverse effect on our revenue (since advertising sales are based on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air) or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future or offer syndicated programming that competes with the Radio Network, and these companies may be larger and have more financial resources than us. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a station may adopt a format to compete directly with us for audiences and advertisers, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings, lower market share, and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic changes, personnel or other programming changes, a decline in broadcast listening trends 29 Table of Contents or other reasons. Our failure to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. We may lose key on-air talent to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for creative and performing on-air talent with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, cable television, satellite television and satellite radio. Employees and other on-air talent of the Company are subject to change and may be lost to competitors or for other reasons. Any adverse changes in particular programs, formats or on-air talent could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract local and/or national advertisers, on our revenue and/or ratings, or could require increased expenses. As such, the loss of key on-air talent could result in lower ratings, lower market share and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Our failure to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain or replace current on-air employees and personnel or that we will be successful in renewing or extending our existing contracts with our on-air employees and personnel. Future losses could be caused by future asset impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill As of December 31, 2008, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 77% of the Company’s total assets. The Company has recently recognized significant non-cash impairment charges relating to these assets. Interim and/or annual impairment testing, as applicable, are required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and could result in future impairment losses. The fair value of FCC licenses and goodwill is primarily dependent on the expected future cash flows of the Radio Markets and Radio Network. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the FCC licenses and goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, the Company may also be required to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could result in future impairment losses are further discussed in the section entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” within Item 7. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms The Company enters into long-term contracts in the ordinary course of business for both the acquisition and distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for both the acquisition and distribution of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, contracts for the distribution of programming to satellite operators, and contracts relating to programming produced by third parties on our stations and by our network business. As these contracts expire, the parties must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if they are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose these rights, the related programming and applicable revenue. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than in the past) or the revenue from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than in the past). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts will depend on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts, the size of viewer audiences, and the related contract expenses and costs. There can be no assurance that revenue from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. The loss of affiliation agreements by our network business could materially adversely affect our results of operations Our Radio Network has approximately 4,400 station affiliates and 8,500 program affiliations. It receives advertising inventory from its affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a 30 Table of Contents specified time period or commercials inserted by the Radio Network into its programming. In addition, primarily with respect to satellite radio providers, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of network affiliation agreements of the Radio Network could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through reduction of advertising revenue. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations The Company uses studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities, and the Internet to originate and/or distribute its station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. The Company relies on third-party contracts and services to operate the Company’s origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more of our third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. If we lose key executive officers, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, primarily our chairman and chief executive officer, Farid Suleman. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by Mr. Suleman would be difficult to replace, and his loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. Mr. Suleman does not have a formal employment agreement with the Company and is not contractually bound to provide his services to the Company for any specific period of time. Our business depends upon licenses issued by the FCC, and if licenses were not renewed or we were to be out of compliance with FCC regulations and policies, our business would be materially impaired Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are issued currently for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. In the last renewal cycle, all of our licenses were renewed; however, we cannot assure you that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations, could result in material impairment and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we fail to renew, or the FCC renews any of the licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of the licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Further, the FCC has a general policy restricting the transferability of a station license while a renewal application for that station is pending. In addition, we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies governing the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions. Additionally, the FCC is considering further changes to its media ownership rules, which may limit our ability to expand our media holdings. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference 31 Table of Contents between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time, and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the FCC’s more rigorous enforcement of its indecency regulations against the broadcast industry as well as by the increased amounts of the potential fines The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. The FCC has also expanded the breadth of indecency regulation to include material that could be considered “blasphemy,” “personally reviling epithets,” “profanity” and vulgar or coarse words amounting to a nuisance. The FCC has found that the broadcast of fleeting and isolated expletives was indecent. The FCC also imposes separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Certain aspects of the FCC’s indecency rules have been recently vacated by the Second Circuit and remanded for further action by the FCC, and the government’s appeal from the court’s decision has recently been argued before the U.S. Supreme Court. A separate case involving other aspects of the FCC’s indecency rules has been vacated by the Third Circuit and remanded to the FCC for further action. The government has sought to appeal this decision before the U.S. Supreme Court, and has asked any such appeal be held in abeyance until the Second Circuit case is decided. Proposals for new federal legislation regarding the broadcast of indecent programming, even if inadvertent and consisting of as little as a single word, have been introduced in Congress, but to date none has been enacted. In the ordinary course of business, we have received complaints or the FCC has initiated inquiries about whether a limited number of our radio stations have broadcast indecent programming. To the extent these inquiries or other proceedings by the FCC result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. In order to remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Several media technologies and evolving industry and policy changes are being developed or have emerged, including the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers (both landline and wireless), consumer products such as portable digital audio players, iPods, cellular phones, other personal communications systems, and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, which has numerous channels and niche formats and sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; • HD Radio™ digital radio technology, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM radio signals, including stations owned by us; 32 Table of Contents • low power FM radio, which has resulted in additional FM radio broadcast outlets that are designed to serve small, localized areas; and • proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay a “performance tax” or copyright royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations. The radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in automobiles, such as audio cassettes, compact discs, satellite digital audio radio and cellular telephones. A growing population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times have contributed to this growth. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, will compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that this historical growth will continue. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations, some of which could result in the imposition of significant costs and expenses not previously part of our existing business operations. Alphabet Acquisition Corp. may not have adequate funds to perform its indemnity obligations to TWDC under the Separation Agreement Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alphabet Acquisition Corp., has agreed to indemnify TWDC from all liabilities relating to the liabilities assumed (or retained) by one of its predecessors under the Separation Agreement, and any liabilities (including third-party claims) imposed on, sustained, incurred or suffered by TWDC that relate to, arise out of or result from the ABC Radio Business, the ABC Radio Business assets transferred under the Separation Agreement or the failure of Alphabet Acquisition Corp. to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge a liability transferred to the ABC Radio Business under the Separation Agreement. In the event that Alphabet Acquisition Corp. becomes obligated to pay TWDC pursuant to its indemnification obligations, we cannot assure you that Alphabet Acquisition Corp. or the Company will have sufficient liquidity to meet such payment obligation or that any such payment would not result in an event of default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility. We are affected by significant restrictions with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the separation The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement restricts us and our affiliates from taking certain actions that could cause TWDC’s internal restructuring or the Spin-Off to be taxable or that could otherwise jeopardize the tax-free status of the internal restructuring or the Spin-Off, including: • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, entering into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engaging in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the acquisition of our stock or the issuance of shares of our stock, or options to acquire or other rights in respect of such stock, unless, generally, the shares are issued to qualifying employees or retirement plans, each in accordance with certain “safe harbors” under applicable regulations of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code; • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, entering into any joint venture that includes assets of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alphabet Acquisition Corp., or any of its subsidiaries; • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, permitting certain subsidiaries of the predecessor of Alphabet Acquisition Corp. at the time of the Spin-Off to cease to own directly and to operate the radio station or radio network business conducted by those subsidiaries immediately prior to the Spin-Off; or, generally, entering into any transaction that would alter the ownership structure of those subsidiaries at the time of the Spin-Off; and 33 Table of Contents • generally, for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, taking any action that might be a restructuring tainting act or a distribution tainting act without receiving the prior written consent of TWDC. For this purpose, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, our affiliates include (i) our subsidiaries, (ii) Farid Suleman, (iii) any of our stockholders affiliated with FL&Co. and (iv) any other controlling stockholder of the Company, or person that is a member of a “coordinating group” with a controlling stockholder of the Company, in each case within the meaning of the applicable regulations under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Because of these restrictions, we may be precluded from buying back our stock and we may be limited in the amount of stock we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the completion of the Spin-Off and the Merger, which could have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Also, our indemnity obligation to TWDC might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. We may be required to indemnify TWDC for taxes resulting from acts prohibited by the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement In certain circumstances, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, we are required to indemnify TWDC against taxes and related costs and liabilities of TWDC and its affiliates that arise in connection with the separation as a result of any restructuring tainting acts or distribution tainting acts by us and/or one or more of our affiliates. For this purpose, our affiliates include (i) our subsidiaries (ii) any of our stockholders affiliated with FL&Co., (iii) Farid Suleman and (iv) any other controlling stockholder of the Company, or person that is a member of a “coordinating group” with a controlling stockholder of the Company, in each case within the meaning of applicable regulations under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. If TWDC recognizes a gain on the separation for reasons not related to a restructuring tainting act or distribution tainting act by us or our affiliates, TWDC would not be entitled to be indemnified by us under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement. Our indemnity obligation to TWDC might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. In the event that we become obligated to pay TWDC pursuant to our indemnification obligations, there can be no assurance we will have sufficient liquidity to meet such payment obligations. It is also possible that any such payment would result in an event of default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility. The transaction structure may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us for a period of time following completion of the Merger Certain provisions of the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, which are intended to preserve the tax-free status of the Merger and separation for United States federal income tax purposes, may discourage future business combination proposals for a period of time following the Merger. Our stock price could be volatile and could drop even further Our common stock has been publicly traded since August 2003. The market price of our common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering and has declined 97% from the date of the Merger through December 31, 2008. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. As a result, the market price of our common stock could materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. The price of our common stock may vary due to a number of factors, including without limitation: • the amount of indebtedness and liquidity of the Company; • the payment of any dividends; 34 Table of Contents • changes in the regulatory environment; • market assessments of our operating results and financial condition; and • general market, business, industry and economic conditions. We cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of our common stock. Our Company’s common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) and is now traded over-the-counter, which may impair its market price and liquidity As a result of the decline of our stock price, the Company’s common stock was delisted from the NYSE as of March 6, 2009 and is now traded over-the-counter. Trading in our common stock in this manner entails certain risks. The trading price of the Company’s common stock may change quickly, and brokers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when the common stock was listed on an exchange. Stocks trading on the over-the-counter market are typically less liquid, and the stock may be viewed less favorably by investors. The market price and liquidity of our common stock may be impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and coverage by security analysts and the media. Consequently, prices for shares of our common stock may be different than might otherwise prevail if our common stock were quoted or traded on a national securities exchange. In addition, prices for securities quoted solely over-the-counter may be difficult to obtain, and stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of common stock. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and its quotation on the over-the-counter market may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investors, and it could make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional capital. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be maintained. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that may inhibit a takeover Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware law, may inhibit changes in control that are not approved by our board of directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limiting the ability to call special meetings of stockholders to the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the president or chief executive officer of the company; and • advance notice requirements for nominations of director candidates. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially impact the Company’s operations in specific geographic areas, as well as nationally, and it may decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease the Company’s revenue or expose it to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. In addition, an act of God or a natural disaster could 35 Table of Contents adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. For example, Hurricane Katrina and the aftermath left in its wake significantly impacted the operations of our New Orleans radio cluster. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. The FTC, the DOJ and the FCC carefully review proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, FTC and/or FCC will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations in any market where we already have a significant position. Due to various market and financial conditions, the Company may not be able to successfully complete future dispositions of our radio stations or future acquisitions of other radio stations We engage in strategic sales of our radio stations, as it makes financial sense to do so and meets the Company’s overall business needs, and have also been required by the FCC to divest certain of our radio stations. However, in light of the current financial and economic market conditions, both in the radio industry and in the overall U. S. economy, our consummation of future radio station dispositions, even those required divestitures, may be very difficult, and our ability to consummate future dispositions is uncertain. The number of radio stations currently for sale from our competitors has dramatically increased, and demand by third party purchasers has decreased, as potential purchasers may have difficulty securing the necessary financing to purchase our radio stations. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions of individual radio stations and groups of radio stations in order to grow the Company. However, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain, as the Company may not be able to secure the necessary financing to make additional future acquisitions. The Company may be influenced by its largest stockholders, whose interests may conflict with those of other stockholders Our largest stockholders, who are affiliated with FL&Co., own approximately 28% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. • The principal stockholders may be able to: • influence the election of our board of directors; • influence our management and policies; and • influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. Certain of our directors have or had relationships with FL&Co. Theodore J. Forstmann is the senior partner of FL&Co., and his brother, J. Anthony Forstmann, is a special limited partner of FL&Co. Michael A. Miles also is a special limited partner of FL&Co. and serves on the Forstmann Little advisory board. Wayne T. Smith is a limited partner of two of the funds that own shares of our common stock and a director of 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of FL&Co. As a result of their relationships with FL&Co., Messrs. Theodore Forstmann, J. Anthony Forstmann, Miles and Smith have an economic interest in certain of the FL&Co. partnerships and their portfolio investments, including the Company. Of those directors, however, only Mr. Theodore Forstmann has any voting or investment power over 36 Table of Contents the shares of common stock of the Company. Herbert J. Siegel serves as a director of IMG Worldwide Holdings Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of FL&Co. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of the FL&Co. partnerships and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors and officers may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to the Company, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts as to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, or the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Future sales of common stock by FL&Co. could adversely affect the price of our common stock FL&Co. holds approximately 28% of our common stock. The market for our common stock could fall substantially if FL&Co. sold large amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, could, among other factors, make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 