ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions concerning the Company’s common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Bank or that the Bank currently believes are immaterial but may also impair the Bank’s business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, the Bank’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. Poor economic conditions or natural disasters in California may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our loans. A substantial majority of the Bank’s loans are generated in the greater Los Angeles area in Southern California. As a result, any poor economic conditions in the Los Angeles area could cause us to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in our loan portfolio. The Los Angeles area has, at times, experienced stagnant economic activity in line with slowdowns California. Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a real estate recession or natural disaster. Approximately $1.0 billion or 66.9% of the Bank’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006, and $776.7 million or 62.8% of the Bank’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005, were concentrated in commercial real estate loans. Of this amount, $279.2 million represented loans secured by industrial buildings, and $184.5 million represented loans secured by retail shopping centers as of December 31, 2006. Although commercial loans generally provide for higher interest rates and shorter terms than single-family residential loans, such loans generally involve a higher degree of risk, as the ability of borrowers to repay these loans is often dependent upon the profitability of the borrowers’ businesses. An increase in the percentage of Nonperforming assets in commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loan portfolios may have a material impact on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations, by reducing the Bank’s income, increasing the Bank’s expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. As the primary collateral for many of the Bank’s loans rests on commercial real estate properties, a downturn in real estate values in the greater Southern California region could negatively impact us by providing us with decreased collateral values in the Bank’s loan portfolio. In the early 1990s, the entire state of California experienced an economic recession, particularly impacting real estate values that resulted in increases in the level of delinquencies and losses for many of the state’s financial institutions. If any similar real estate recession affecting the Bank’s market areas should occur in the future, the security for many of the Bank’s loans could be reduced and the ability of many of the Bank’s borrowers to pay could decline. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral the Bank holds for real estate secured loans and negatively impact the Bank’s results of operations. The Southern California real estate market ended 2006 with declining prices and a slower sales pace. If real estate sales and appreciation continue to weaken, the Bank might experience an increase in the percentage of Nonperforming assets in its commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios. Such an increase may have a material impact on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations, by reducing the Bank’s income, increasing the Bank’s expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. The Bank has not experienced any deterioration in the commercial real estate loan portfolio during 2006. (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition —Nonperforming Assets”). 15 Table of Contents The Bank may incur additional costs for environmental clean up. The cost of cleaning up, paying damages or penalties associated with environmental problems could increase the Bank’s operating expenses. If a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Bank will often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. The Bank also could be compelled to assume the management responsibilities of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on their loans. The Bank also leases premises for its branch operations and corporate office in locations where environmental problems may exist. Although the Bank has lending and facility leasing guidelines intended to identify properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of these properties. As a result, environmental laws could force the Bank to clean up the hazardous waste located on these properties (at the Bank’s expense) and cost might exceed their fair market value. Further, even if environmental laws did not hold the Bank responsible for the environmental clean up of such properties, it might be difficult or impossible to sell properties until the environmental problems were remediated. The Bank may experience loan losses in excess of its allowance for loan losses. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level it believes is adequate to absorb any inherent losses in the loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that are beyond the Bank’s control may cause its actual loan losses to exceed current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the allowance for loan losses, it would aversely affect the Bank’s business. In addition, the FDIC and the California Department of Financial Institutions, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Bank to increase its provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of the Bank’s management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the Department of Financial Institutions could also adversely affect the Bank’s business. The Bank tries to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans. Losses nevertheless occur. The Bank establishes a loan loss allowance for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the statements of financial condition date. The Bank bases allowance on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical loss experience; • evaluation of current economic conditions; • assessment of risk factors for loans with exposure to the economies of southern California and Pacific Rim countries; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying the Bank’s loans. The Bank may have difficulty managing its growth. The Bank’s total assets have increased to $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2006, from $1.7 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Bank opened on average, two new branch offices from 2002 through 2005. The Bank intends to investigate other opportunities to open additional branches that would complement the Bank’s existing business as such opportunities may arise; however, the Bank can provide no assurance that it will be able to identify additional locations or open additional branches. The Bank’s ability to manage its growth will depend primarily on its ability to: • monitor operations; • control costs; 16 Table of Contents • maintain positive customer relations; and • attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel. If the Bank fails to achieve those objectives in an efficient and timely manner, the Bank may experience interruptions and dislocations in its business, which could substantially increase the expenses and negatively impact the ability to retain the Bank’s customers. In addition, such concerns may cause federal and state banking regulators to require us to delay or forgo any proposed growth until such problems have been addressed to the satisfaction of those regulators. The Bank’s earnings are subject to interest rate risk, especially if rates fall. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of Nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond the Bank’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for products and services. The Bank is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Given current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, interest rate spread could be expected to decrease during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to increase during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse or a positive effect on results of operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Interest Rate Risk.” All of the Bank’s lending involves underwriting risks, especially in a competitive lending market. At December 31, 2006, commercial real estate loans represented 66.9% of the Bank’s total loan portfolio; commercial lines and term loans to businesses represented 17.8% of the bank’s total loan portfolio; and SBA loans represented 3.2% of the bank’s total loan portfolio. Real estate lending involves risks associated with the potential decline in the value of underlying real estate collateral and the cash flow from income producing properties. Declines in real estate values and cash flows can be caused by a number of factors, including adversity in general economic conditions, rising interest rates, changes in tax and other governmental and other policies affecting real estate holdings, environmental conditions, governmental and other use restrictions, development of competitive properties, and increasing vacancy rates. The Bank’s dependence on commercial real estate loans increases the risk of loss both in the Bank’s loan portfolio and with respect to any other real estate owned when real estate values decline. The Bank seeks to reduce risk of loss through underwriting and monitoring procedures. Commercial lending, even when secured by the assets of a business, involves considerable risk of loss in the event of failure of the business. To reduce such risk, the Bank typically takes additional security interests in other collateral, such as real property, certificates of deposit or life insurance, and/or obtains personal guarantees. Specific risks associated with SBA lending are discussed in a separate risk factor below. The Bank operates in a highly competitive market, and some of its competitors offer a broader range of services than the Bank provides, and have lower cost structures. The banking business in the Bank’s current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. While the Bank’s primary market area is generally dominated by a relatively small number of major banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area, competitors 17 Table of Contents also include several locally owned and operated Korean-American banks and their subsidiaries. These other banks have branches located in many of the same neighborhoods as the Bank, provide similar types of products and services and use the same Korean language publications and media for their marketing purposes. There is a high level of competition within this specific market. While major banks have not historically focused their marketing efforts on the Korean-American customer base in Southern California, their competitive influence could increase in the future. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than the Bank, offer certain services the Bank cannot, and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than the Bank on a per loan or per asset basis. In addition to competitive factors impacting the bank’s specific market niche, the Bank is affected by more general competitive trends in the banking industry, including intra-state and interstate consolidation, competition from non-bank sources and technological innovations. Many of the Bank’s competitors have advantages conducting certain businesses and providing certain services, and there can be no assurance that the Bank will be able to compete successfully. The Bank also competes with other financial institutions such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, thrift and loan companies, mortgage companies, securities brokerage companies and insurance companies located within and without the Bank’s service area and with quasi-financial institutions such as money market funds for deposits and loans. Financial services are increasingly offered over the Internet on a national and international basis, and the Bank competes with the providers of these services as well. Ultimately, competition can drive down the Bank’s interest margins and reduce profitability. It also can make it more difficult for us to continue to increase the size of the loan portfolio and deposit base. See “—Competition.” Center Financial might not be able to continue to pay cash dividends in the future. As a banking holding company, which currently has no significant assets other than the Company’s equity interest in Center Bank, Center Financial’s ability to pay dividends depends on the dividends it receives from Center Bank. The dividend practice of Center Bank depends on its earnings, financial position, current and anticipated cash requirements and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors at that time. In addition, during any period in which Center Financial has deferred payment of interest otherwise due and payable on its subordinated debt securities, it may not make any dividends or distributions with respect to our capital stock. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources.” Center Financial paid quarterly cash dividends of 4 cents per share in 2006, 2005 and 2004 and currently plans to continue to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, the amount of any such dividend will be determined each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion, based on the factors described in the previous paragraph. No assurance can be given that future performance will justify the payment of dividends in any particular quarter. As a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, substantially all of Center Financial’s revenue and cash flow, including funds available for the payment of dividends and other operating expenses, is dependent upon the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividends payable to Center Financial by Center Bank are restricted under California and federal laws and regulation. See “Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters—Dividends.” The Bank has specific risks associated with Small Business Administration loans. The Bank realized $3.3 million, $2.5 million, and $4.2 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in gains recognized on secondary market on sales of SBA loans. The Bank has regularly sold the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of these loans in the secondary market in previous years. The Bank can provide no assurance that it will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will exist for, or that it will continue to realize premiums upon the sale of the SBA loans. The federal government presently guarantees 75% to 80% of the principal amount of each qualifying SBA loan. The Bank can provide no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA program, or if it does, that such guaranteed portion will remain at its current funding level. Furthermore, the Bank can provide no assurance that it will retain the preferred lender 18 Table of Contents status, which, subject to certain limitations, allows it to approve and fund SBA loans without the necessity of having the loan approved in advance by the SBA, or that if it does, the federal government will not reduce the amount of such loans. The Bank believes that the SBA loan portfolio does not involve more than a normal risk of collectibility. However, since the Bank has sold some of the guaranteed portions of the SBA loan portfolio, the Bank incurs a pro rata credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans since the Bank shares pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, pursuit of remedies against a borrower subject to SBA approval, and where the SBA establishes that its loss is attributable to deficiencies in the manner in which the loan application has been prepared and submitted, the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee with respect to the SBA loans or it may seek the recovery of damages from the Bank. The SBA has never declined to honor its guarantees with respect to its SBA loans, although no assurance can be given that the SBA would not attempt to do so in the future. (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Loan Portfolio—Small Business Administration (SBA) Loans.”) Center Financial’s and Bank’s directors and executive officers control a large amount of the Company’s stock and shareholders’ interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 25.2% of Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they would be able to significantly affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Center Financial. In some situations, the interests of Center Financial’s directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, Center Financial’s board of directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions contained in Center Financial’s Articles of Incorporation will delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or its management. These provisions include: • staggered terms of office for members of the board of directors; • the elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • a requirement that the Company’s board of directors consider the potential social and economic effects on the Bank’s employees, depositors, customers and the communities served as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of Center Financial. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire the Company, which could reduce the market price of the company’s common stock and the price that the shareholder may ultimately receive when their stock is sold. The Company is involved in litigation. From time to time, the Company is involved in litigation. If litigation arises against us, the Company will vigorously enforce and defend its rights. Litigation may result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of the Company’s management personnel from their day-to-day responsibilities. In addition, in the event of an adverse result in litigation, the Company could also be required to pay substantial damages. The Bank is currently a party to a lawsuit entitled Korea Export Insurance Corporation v. Korea Data Systems (USA), Inc., et al. As a result, the Company’s defense of this lawsuit, regardless of its eventual outcome, will likely be costly and time consuming. For a more detailed discussion of this lawsuit, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 