ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the events referred to below actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Certain statements in this Form 10-K (including certain of the following risk factors) constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 6 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We face significant challenges due to adverse conditions in the non-prime mortgage industry, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate as a going concern. In the third quarter of 2006, the non-prime mortgage market in which the Company operates was characterized by increased competition for loans and customers which simultaneously lowered profit margins on loans and caused lenders to be more aggressive in making loans to relatively less qualified customers. By the end of 2006, the non-prime mortgage industry was clearly being negatively impacted. The sustained pricing competition and higher risk portfolios of loans reduced the appetite for loans among whole loan buyers, who offered increasingly lower prices for loans, thereby shrinking profit margins for non-prime lenders. In addition, the higher levels of credit risk taken on by non-prime lenders resulted in higher rates of delinquency in the loans held for investment and in increasing frequency of early payment defaults and repurchase demands on loans that had been sold. These trends accelerated during the first quarter of 2007, and the industry experienced a period of turmoil which has continued into the second quarter 2007. As of mid-June 2007, more than 50 mortgage companies operating in the non-prime mortgage industry have failed and many others face serious operating and financial challenges. The most notable of these failures is New Century Mortgage Corporation (“New Century”), one of the largest non-prime originators in recent years, which announced in early April 2007 that it would file for bankruptcy protection. While real estate markets were booming during 2004 and 2005, and some areas experienced significant home price appreciation, many originators extended credit and underwriting standards to meet market demands. When home price appreciation leveled off, or in some areas declined, many of the loans originated in 2006 did not perform up to expectations. This decline in performance led to increases in the cost of securitizing non-prime loans as the rating agencies which rate non-prime securitizations increased loss coverage levels, requiring higher credit support for non-prime securitizations. During the first seven months of 2007, a number of significant industry events occurred, including the following: • New Century announced that it would restate results for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 to account for losses on defaulted loans that it was obligated to repurchase (February 7th); • HSBC Holdings PLC, one of the world’s largest banks and non-prime lenders, announced an increase in its bad debt charge for 2006, which it attributed to problems in its U.S. non-prime mortgage lending division (February 8th); • Credit-Based Asset Servicing and Securitization LLC (“C-BASS”) and Fieldstone Investment Corporation (“Fieldstone”) announced that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement under which C-BASS would acquire all of Fieldstone’s outstanding common stock (February 16th); • ACC Capital Holdings, the parent company of Ameriquest Mortgage Company and Argent Mortgage Company, two large non-prime mortgage originators, announced that it had secured additional capital from Citi’s Markets and Banking Division and its majority shareholder, and that Citi had agreed to become the company’s primary warehouse lender and had acquired an option to buy the company’s wholesale mortgage business (February 28th); 34 • Fremont General Corp. (“Fremont”), another significant non-prime mortgage originator, announced that it would exit its non-prime real estate lending operations and that it was in discussions with various parties regarding the sale of this business (March 2nd); • The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading of New Century’s common stock based on uncertainties concerning its liquidity position (March 12th); • Fieldstone announced that it had amended its previously announced merger agreement with C-BASS to reduce the price of Fieldstone’s common stock to $4.00 per share (March 16th); • People’s Choice Home Loan, Inc., another significant non-prime mortgage originator, filed for bankruptcy protection (March 20th); • Fremont sold approximately $4.0 billion of non-prime residential real estate loans and entered into exclusive negotiations with the same institution to sell most of its residential real estate business (March 21st); • New Century filed for bankruptcy protection (April 2nd); • NovaStar Financial, another significant non-prime mortgage originator, initiated a formal process to explore strategic alternatives and received $100 million in financing (April 11th); • First Horizon National Corp. blamed difficulty selling mortgages in the secondary market and increased repurchase requests for its decision to shutter its subprime business (April 20th); • H&R Block Inc. announced the sale of Option One Mortgage Corp. (“Option One”), another large non-prime mortgage originator, to an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management with a transaction value equal to Option One’s tangible net assets as of the date of closing less $300 million (April 20th); • WMC, a unit of General Electric Co., announced that it would cut 771 jobs (April 20th). • Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service placed its credit ratings on 612 classes of residential mortgage-backed securities backed by U.S. non-prime collateral on “credit watch” with negative implications because of poor collateral performance, expectation of increasing losses on the underlying collateral pools, the consequent reduction of credit support, and changes that will be implemented with respect to the methodology for rating new transactions (July 10); • Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 399 residential mortgage-backed securities and placed an additional 32 residential mortgage-backed securities under review for possible downgrade based on higher than anticipated rates of delinquency in the underlying collateral compared to current credit enhancement levels (July 10); • General Electric Co. announced plans to sell WMC Mortgage Corp, its three-year-old U.S. non-prime mortgage unit (July 12); • NovaStar Financial, Inc. announced an investment of $48.8 million by MassMutual and Jefferies Capital Partners as part of a commitment to raise $150 million in new equity to complete its formal process of exploring strategic alternatives (July 16); • Bear Stearns announced the collapse of two of its hedge funds that had invested in non-prime mortgage securities (July 18); • Countrywide Financial Corp.’s second-quarter net income fell 33% because of softening home prices. Countrywide cut its 2007 earnings estimate because it expects a challenging second half, including difficulty in the housing and mortgage markets (July 24); • American Home Mortgage Investment Corp. announced a delayed payment of its quarterly cash dividend on the company’s common stock and anticipated delaying payment of its quarterly cash 35 dividends on its preferred stock in order to preserve liquidity until it obtains a better understanding of the impact that current market conditions in the mortgage industry and the broader credit market will have on the company’s balance sheet and overall liquidity. American Home Mortgage said that the unprecedented disruption in the credit markets in the past few weeks caused major write-downs of its loan and security portfolios and consequently has caused significant margin calls with respect to its credit facilities (July 28); • MGIC Investment Corporation announced that it had concluded that the value of its investment in C-BASS had been materially impaired because the market for non-prime mortgages had experienced significant turmoil beginning in February 2007, with market dislocations accelerating to unprecedented levels beginning in approximately mid-July 2007 (July 30); and • American Home Mortgage announced that it was unable to borrow on its credit facilities and to fund its lending obligations of approximately $300 million on July 30 and that it did not anticipate funding approximately $450 to $500 million on July 31 (July 31). The combination of these events with the continued heavy repurchase demands from whole loan purchasers experienced during this period created a cycle beginning with a significant increase in the amount of distressed loans for sale in the market. This increase in loan supply reduced whole loan prices, providing a basis for warehouse line providers to mark down the collateral value of loans held in inventory and, as a result, to place margin calls on non-prime lenders. These increased margin calls resulted in more distressed sales which, in turn, put further downward pressure on whole loan sale prices, regenerating the cycle with escalating negative results. All of these general market conditions may affect the performance of the mortgage loans originated by us and, even if they do not affect performance, have and may continue to adversely affect our common stock price. The non-prime lending industry is experiencing increases in mortgage loan defaults and sharp declines in the market for mortgages originated, which have led us to experience losses on the loans we originate and significant reductions in our liquidity, and have required us to obtain waivers of compliance with certain covenants under our credit facilities. In connection with the challenges facing the non-prime lending industry, several of our competitors have recently stopped originating loans or sought protection under bankruptcy laws. Unless the values of our mortgage products cease their decline, and we are able to obtain new sources of liquidity and waivers and modification of the covenants in our credit facilities, we may suffer a similar fate. Our credit facilities are subject to margin calls based on the lender’s opinion of the value of our related collateral. An unanticipated large margin call could severely harm our liquidity. The financing we receive under our credit facilities depends in large part on the lenders’ valuation of the collateral securing the financing. Each credit facility allows the lender to revalue the collateral at any time to values that the lender, in their discretion, considers to be market values. In the event that a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring us to post additional collateral to cover the decrease. When we are subject to such a margin call, we must provide the lender with additional collateral or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings with minimal notice. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operation, financial condition and business prospects. If the frequency, volume or size of margin calls increases significantly, it would have a material and adverse impact on our ability to continue as a going concern. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call or a net loss payment obligation, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From January 1, 2007 to March 15, 2007, we paid approximately $190 million of margin calls by our lenders, two-thirds of which occurred in the four weeks prior to March 15, 2007. To bolster liquidity and 36 minimize our exposure to margin calls, in March 2007, the Company sold $2.7 billion in loans held for sale at a substantial discount. (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments.”) We may not meet the continued listing criteria for the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could materially and adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock, our business and our financial condition. On March 15, 2007, we received a notice from the staff of NASDAQ stating that the Company is not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because it had not filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 on a timely basis. Due to such noncompliance, the Company’s common stock may be subject to potential delisting. We requested a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel to appeal the NASDAQ staff’s determination and to present our plan to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s filing requirements, which was held on May 3, 2007, followed by a written submission dated May 21, 2007. The hearing request automatically stayed the delisting of the common stock pending the Panel’s review and decision. In addition, on May 15, 2007, we received an additional deficiency notice from the staff of NASDAQ because the Company had not filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The additional notice stated that such failure could serve as an additional basis for the delisting of the Company’s securities from NASDAQ. On June 20, 2007 the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) granted the Company’s request for continued listing of the Company’s securities on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The Company’s continued listing is subject to certain conditions, including compliance with extended deadlines for the filing of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and of the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, for continued listing of our common stock on NASDAQ, we are required to, among other things, maintain certain minimum thresholds with regard to stockholders’ equity and minimum closing bid prices. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements, our common stock could be subject to delisting from trading on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet all requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ. If we are unable to continue to list our common stock for trading on NASDAQ, there may be an adverse impact on the market price and liquidity of our common stock, and our stock may be subject to the “penny stock rules” contained in Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated there under. Delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ could also materially adversely affect our business, including, among other things: our ability to raise additional financing to fund our operations; our ability to attract and retain customers; and our ability to attract and retain personnel, including management personnel. In addition, if we were unable to list our common stock for trading on NASDAQ, many institutional investors would no longer be able to retain their interests in and/or make further investments in our common stock because of their internal rules and protocols. Repurchases of defective mortgage loans such as loans that experience Early Payment Defaults may harm our business. In connection with the sale and securitization of our mortgage loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding our Company and the mortgage loans. If, after a mortgage loan is sold, there is identification of the breach of any such representation or warranty, we may be obligated to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such losses, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. We may also be obligated to repurchase such a loan in the event of default by the borrower. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, mortgage loans repurchased totaled $205.2 million and $72.3 million, respectively, pursuant to these obligations. Subsequent to December 31, 2006, certain investors became more 37 aggressive regarding the identification, notification and collection of repurchase requests to the Company. During the five months ended May 31, 2007, we repurchased approximately $152 million in mortgage loans and paid $39.2 million in cash settlements to eliminate the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans in the future from investors. The Company when settling repurchase requests often receives a release from the investor from all future repurchase requests or obligations. With the exception of the Early Payment Default warranty, which applies for a defined period, we are subject to these representations and warranties for the life of the mortgage loan, which address among other things: • fraud in the origination process; • the borrower will not fail to make a specified number of payments (typically one or two) after the investor purchases the loan (an “Early Payment Default”); • compliance with laws; • regulations and underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the mortgage loan documents and mortgage loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the mortgage loan. Once we repurchase a mortgage loan, we may either sell it or retain such loan as part of our portfolio and bear any associated losses. We seek to minimize such losses from defective mortgage loans by correcting flaws if possible and selling or re-selling such mortgage loans. If we sell such a loan, the sale would be at a discount, which could be quite severe. A mortgage loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, impact our ability to obtain third party financing for such mortgage loan, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a discount. We also create allowances to provide for defective mortgage loans in our financial statements. We cannot assure you that we will not make mistakes and breach such representations and warranties, or that certain employees will not deliberately violate our lending policies. In addition, the number of mortgage loans that we are required to repurchase will increase as a result of our merger with Aames, since we assumed their repurchase obligations upon the closing of the merger. We cannot assure you that losses associated with defective mortgage loans will not harm our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to continue to sell and securitize our mortgage loans. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from the gains on sale generated by sales of pools of our mortgage loans as whole mortgage loans. We typically have sold mortgage loans to a number of institutional purchasers, some of which may be frequent, repeat purchasers, and others of which may make only one or a few purchases from us. In the year ended December 31, 2006, 29.9% and 12.1% of the total principal amount of whole loan sales were made to HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. and The CIT Group, respectively. In April 2007, HSBC Mortgage informed the Company that they will no longer be purchasing any more non-prime loans in the future. In July 2007, the CIT Group announced that they will no longer be purchasing non-prime loans in the future. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will continue to have any purchasers for our mortgage loans on terms and conditions that will be profitable to us. Also, even though our mortgage loans are generally marketable to multiple purchasers, certain mortgage loans may be marketable to only one or a few purchasers, thereby increasing the risk that we may be unable to sell such mortgage loans at a profit. There has been a severe lack of demand recently for the purchase of whole loan pools of non-prime mortgage loans. For example, Freddie Mac announced in February 2007 that it will no longer purchase non-prime mortgage loans that include “teaser” rates and will limit the use of low documentation loans in connection with these products. As a result, we have been limited in the mortgage loans we can sell, and these 38 loans have remained part of our portfolio, financed primarily through our credit facilities, which are short-term financing sources. As discussed below, these facilities include margin provisions to ensure the adequacy of the pledged collateral, and margin calls made by our lenders during the first quarter of 2007 have reduced the amount of available capital. (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments.”) We also often rely on our ability to securitize our mortgage loans to realize a greater percentage of the full economic value of the mortgage loans. We cannot assure you, however, that we will continue to be successful in securitizing mortgage loans. Our ability to complete securitizations of our mortgage loans will depend upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including conditions in the credit and securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically, the availability of credit enhancements such as financial guarantee insurance, a senior subordinated structure or other means, and the performance of our mortgage loans previously held for investment. As a result of conditions within the non-prime mortgage industry, rating agencies, financial guarantee insurers and investors have recently begun to, and may continue to in the future, require additional credit enhancement to support the securities sold in securitizations of non-prime mortgage loans. This requirement generally has the effect of reducing our earnings and increasing the overall expense of executing securitizations. We face steeply declining employee morale, and our inability to retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. The current challenges our Company and the non-prime industry face has had a very negative effect on our employee morale. We depend upon our wholesale account executives and retail mortgage loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents, borrowers, management, and others. We believe that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled executive officers, account executives and mortgage loan officers has historically been highly competitive and has experienced a high rate of turnover. The challenges we face to retain qualified management personnel may be extremely disruptive to our business. We currently recruit college graduates to participate in our management trainee program. If we are unable to retain those trainees for a sufficient period following their training, we may be unable to recapture our costs of training and recruitment. In addition, if a manager leaves our company there is an increased likelihood that other members of his or her team will follow. In addition, attrition of qualified account executives and mortgage loan officers may hinder our ability to continue to originate quality mortgage loans that we are able to sell for a profit, which will reduce our revenues, and increase hiring and retention costs. We rely, to a significant degree, on a few key executives. The Company’s success is significantly reliant upon a few key individuals, including but not limited to, James Konrath, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Lydon, the President and Chief Operating Officer, Stuart Marvin, the Executive Vice President, and Jeffrey Crawford, the Director of Operations. None of the above mentioned executives are subject to employment contracts which would provide assurances the executives will remain at the Company. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2006, many of the members of management, including these executives, had their incentive compensation reduced substantially from amounts historically paid or targeted for the year ended December 31, 2006. Based upon the above, there can be no assurance that such executives, or other executives at the Company, will remain with the Company. 39 As a result of the merger with Aames, we acquired deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As a result of the acquisition of Aames, we acquired deferred tax assets. Based upon the operating environment in the non-prime industry (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments”) there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve profitable operations in the future and therefore realize the value of certain deferred tax assets obtained in the acquisition of Aames. Also, unless adequate capital is provided to us to continue operations, we may not be able to sustain operations or have enough future taxable income to use the deferred tax assets we acquired. Based upon these events and circumstances, we did establish a valuation allowance against certain tax assets as of December 31, 2006. Our business requires a significant amount of cash and if it is not available our business will be significantly harmed. Our primary sources of cash have historically been our warehouse credit facilities, our commercial paper program, our residual financing and servicing financing facilities and the proceeds from the sales and securitizations of our mortgage loans. We require substantial cash to fund our mortgage loan originations, to pay our mortgage loan origination expenses and to hold our mortgage loans pending sale or securitization. Also, as a servicer of mortgage loans, we are required to advance delinquent principal and interest payments, unpaid property taxes, hazard insurance premiums, and foreclosure and foreclosure-related costs. Our warehouse and commercial paper program credit facilities also require us to observe certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain levels of cash and general liquidity in our company. As of December 31, 2006, we financed substantially all of our mortgage loans through eight separate warehouse lenders and our commercial paper program. These facilities generally have a renewable, one-to-two year term. Because these are short-term commitments of capital, the lenders may respond to market conditions, which may favor an alternative investment strategy for them, making it more difficult for us to secure continued financing. The Company, on March 30, 2007, amended the Amended and Restated Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2005, with Credit Suisse First Boston Mortgage Capital LLC (“CSFB”), and entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. (Wachovia). Under the amended agreement with CSFB, the term of the CSFB repurchase facility was extended through March 31, 2008 and the maximum committed amount able to be borrowed remained at $600 million. Under the agreement with Wachovia (which was amended on May 1, 2007 and July 5, 2007), the maximum amount the Company is able to borrow is $1 billion. Also on March 30, 2007, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a secured Loan Agreement with Mortgage Investment Fundings, L.L.C. (“MIF”), a lending entity managed by Farallon Capital Management. Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, MIF extended term loans guaranteed by the Company in an aggregate principal amount of $230,000,000. In conjunction with the Loan Agreement, the Company (i) issued to MIF a warrant to purchase 3,226,431 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $10 per share and (ii) granted to MIF certain preemptive rights to purchase additional equity securities of the Company, certain registration rights with respect to its equity securities in the Company and Board of Directors observer rights. Utilizing proceeds obtained from the sale of loans in the first quarter of 2007 and proceeds from the Farallon term note, Accredited repaid substantially all the debt then outstanding on its warehouse credit facilities. Concurrent with the repayment of these facilities, Accredited terminated many of the warehouse credit lines available to the Company and obtained waivers of certain covenants on the remaining facilities. In exchange for the waivers granted, Accredited agreed that it would not seek additional borrowings under these credit agreements. There were no amounts outstanding under these facilities at July 31, 2007. 40 In addition, by May 31, 2007, based upon market conditions adversely impacting the salability of any asset-backed commercial paper notes collateralized by non-prime mortgage loans, the Company voluntarily terminated the program and repaid all subordinated notes and SLNs. (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments.) The timing of our mortgage loan dispositions (which are periodic) is not always matched to the timing of our expenses (which are continuous). This requires us to maintain significant levels of cash to maintain acceptable levels of liquidity. When we securitize our mortgage loans or sell our mortgage loans with a retained interest, we may not receive any amounts in excess of the principal amount of the mortgage loan for up to 12 months or longer. Further, any decrease in demand in the whole mortgage loan market, like we have experienced recently (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments”), such that we are unable to timely and profitably sell our mortgage loans could inhibit our ability to meet our liquidity demands. We have operated under waivers provided by lenders with respect to certain covenants in our credit facilities. A failure to obtain waivers or renewals of such waivers to their covenants can result in the lenders’ ability to immediately accelerate repayment. Certain of our lenders have waived certain covenants which include: • maintaining positive net income; and • filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K in a timely fashion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future waivers or new waivers if covenants are not met, or that we will be able to obtain waivers on favorable terms. In the event such amendments or waivers are required and we are unable to obtain them, our lenders will have the right to accelerate our repayment obligations under our credit facilities and it could adversely impact our ability to fund mortgage loans and jeopardize our ability to continue as a going concern. Our credit facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may impact our ability to fund mortgage loans, grow our business and increase revenues. A failure to obtain waivers to these covenants could result in immediate acceleration and loss of liquidity. Material adverse change covenants and cross default provisions magnify the consequences of any failure to maintain full compliance with all covenants. Our warehouse credit facilities, residual financing facilities and servicing financing facilities typically contain extensive restrictions and covenants that may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or engage in other business activities, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The covenants and restrictions address, among other things: • minimum profitability; • liquidity and net worth requirements; • limitations on indebtedness to net worth ratios; • asset quality and mortgage loan performance tests; • inter-company dividends; • investments and acquisitions; • repurchase or redemption of capital stock; • mergers or consolidations or other changes of control; • mortgage loan attributes; 41 • time periods for holding mortgage loans; • maximum cumulative losses; • financial reporting requirements, including timely filing of reports required under the Securities Act; • delivery of audited financial statements and auditors’ letter (without a going concern qualification); and • material adverse change restrictions. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or restrictions, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to terminate the credit facility, declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under such agreements, and restrict our ability to make future borrowings. Our lenders have the ability to reasonably determine in their sole discretion whether a material adverse change has occurred and if they were to do so we would be in default under these facilities. There can be no assurance that our lenders will not determine that a material adverse change has occurred and cause us to be in default under these facilities. These agreements also contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. Our lenders have the right to liquidate the collateral pledged under such agreements upon the occurrence of a default and there can be no assurance that the proceeds realized from such a sale would be an amount equal to what would be realized by a sale of the collateral in a non-liquidation setting. As a result of our merger with Aames, our management has been and may continue to be distracted from their focus on our business and operations in order to attend to merger-related matters. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating the Accredited and Aames businesses. The process of integrating operations has caused and continues to cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management have devoted and may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business, service existing borrowers and vendors, attract new borrowers and develop new products or strategies. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. Failure to successfully integrate Aames into Accredited’s operations could reduce our profitability. We have spent considerable resources to integrate the Aames operations, including the combination of sales and marketing efforts, and anticipate significant additional efforts will be necessary. If we are not able to successfully integrate the business and operations of Aames, or the state of our industry does not improve, our expectations of future results of operations may not be met. Members of our management have devoted significant attention and resources to integrating the business and operations of Aames. Continued diversion of management’s attention or difficulties in the transition process could have a material adverse impact on us. Additionally, personnel have left and have been terminated because of the merger. Employee terminations or resignations or facility closures may require us to make severance or other payments and may result in related litigation. The integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. The integration process may also result in additional and unforeseen expenses and may have unanticipated adverse results relating to our existing businesses. The benefits we anticipated from the merger, such as cost savings and expense reductions achieved by eliminating duplicative operations, outside services and redundant staff and by consolidating facilities, depend on 42 our ability to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of Accredited and Aames and future market conditions. Even if we are able to integrate operations, there can be no assurance that these expected cost savings, expense reductions and synergies will be achieved, particularly in light of the current challenges the non-prime mortgage industry faces. The failure to achieve synergies could have a material adverse effect on the business results of operations and financial condition of the combined company. The pledge of the mortgage loans, servicing assets and the economic residual interests that we retain may limit our ability to obtain additional sources of financing. Our ability to obtain additional sources of financing may be limited to the extent that we have pledged our mortgage loans, our servicing rights and advances, and our economic residual interests, which together represent substantially all of our assets, to warehouse and repurchase facility providers. Additionally, on March 30, 2007, the Company completed a $230 million term financing with MIF Farallon, in which the company pledged all of its unencumbered assets to secure the term facility (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments”). To the extent that we are not successful in maintaining, replacing or obtaining alternative financing sources on acceptable terms or raise additional capital, we may have to limit our mortgage loan originations or sell mortgage loans earlier than intended. Limiting our originations or earlier sales of our mortgage loans would adversely affect the results of our operations and restrict our ability to repay our outstanding debt and could negatively impact the value of our stock. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy. Historically, most of our warehouse lending facilities and the REIT’s residual financing facilities have been structured as repurchase agreements. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the Bankruptcy Code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Our business relies upon access to funds in order to originate mortgages. In the event of a bankruptcy filing and the lenders’ seizure of the collateral securing our obligations to them, we would likely have great difficulty in obtaining replacement credit facilities because we would not have sufficient collateral to secure the loans we require to continue operating. Without such replacement credit, we would be unable to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the Bankruptcy Code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender liquidates. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy or other insolvency filing by either a lender or us. REIT is bound by certain covenants in connection with its Series A Preferred Shares and if REIT breaches such covenants, no dividends can be paid on REIT’s common shares which are held by us, which may adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with the issuance of REIT’s Series A Preferred Shares, REIT agreed to be bound by the following covenants: • Commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 2004, REIT was required to have on its balance sheet total shareholders’ equity, as of the end of each quarter and determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, equal to at least $50 million; • Commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 2004, REIT was required to have on its balance sheet loans held for investment (generally defined as securitized loans and loans held for securitization), as of the end of each quarter and determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, greater than or equal to $2 billion; and 43 • Commencing with the quarter ending December 31, 2005, REIT was required, for the four fiscal quarters most recently ended, to have cumulative unencumbered cash flow (generally defined as earnings before interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization adjusted to exclude extraordinary gains or losses, gains (but not losses) from sales of assets outside the ordinary course of business and income from subsidiaries of REIT to the extent that such subsidiaries are restricted by law or agreement from distributing such income to REIT, except to the extent such income is actually distributed in a period) greater than or equal to six times the cumulative dividend required to be distributed to holders of REIT’s Series A Preferred Shares in those four quarters. If REIT is not in compliance with any of the foregoing covenants as of the end of any quarter and remains in default on one or more covenants as of the end of the following quarter, then no dividends are payable on REIT’s common shares until it is in compliance with all of the covenants as of the end of two successive quarters. We own all of REIT’s common shares and rely heavily on the dividend received from REIT on the common shares. If REIT violates the covenants in connection with the Series A Preferred Shares, we will not be able to receive any dividends on our common shares of REIT which will adversely affect our business and operations. In 2006, the aggregate dividend we received on the common shares of REIT was approximately $200 million. Significant losses on the economic residual interests from securitizations that we retain in our REIT subsidiaries will reduce our earnings, negatively affect our liquidity, and otherwise negatively affect our business. The economic residual interests for securitizations that we retain in our REIT subsidiary are unrated and involve significant investment risk. By holding these economic residual interests from securitizations, we retain the “first loss” risk associated with the underlying pool of mortgage loans. As a result, the credit performance and prepayment rates of the non-prime loans underlying these residual interests directly affect our returns on these residual interests. Significant realized losses from our economic residual interests could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We finance borrowers with lower credit ratings. The non-prime mortgage loans we originate generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans, which could result in losses on mortgage loans that we hold or that we are required to repurchase, the loss of our servicing rights and damage to our reputation as a mortgage loan servicer. We are in the business of originating, financing, selling, securitizing and servicing non-prime mortgage loans. Non-prime mortgage loans generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan and a default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the mortgage loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted mortgage loan is generally higher than for a performing mortgage loan. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on mortgage loans beginning when we originate them until we sell them and we continue to bear the risk of delinquency and default after we securitize mortgage loans or sell mortgage loans with a retained interest. Mortgage loans that become delinquent prior to sale or securitization may become unsaleable or saleable only at a discount, and the longer we hold mortgage loans prior to sale or securitization, the greater the chance we will bear the costs associated with the mortgage loans’ delinquency. Factors that may increase the time held prior to sale or securitization include the time required to accumulate mortgage loans for securitizations or sales of large pools of mortgage loans, the amount and timing of third-party due diligence in connection with sales or securitizations, defects in the mortgage loans and the investor demand for whole loan pools and securitization debt. We also reacquire the risks of delinquency and default for mortgage loans that we are obligated to repurchase. Repurchase obligations are typically triggered in mortgage loan sale transactions if an Early Payment Default occurs on the mortgage loan after sale or in any sale or securitization if the mortgage loan materially violates our representations or warranties. 44 If we experience higher-than-expected levels of delinquency or default in pools of mortgage loans that we service, we may lose our servicing rights, which would result in a loss of future servicing income and may damage our reputation as a mortgage loan servicer. We attempt to manage these risks with risk-based mortgage loan pricing and appropriate underwriting policies and mortgage loan collection methods. However, if such policies and methods are insufficient to control our delinquency and default risks and do not result in appropriate mortgage loan pricing and collecting, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Our total delinquency rate (30 or more days past due, including mortgage loans in foreclosure and converted into real estate owned) for our servicing portfolio was 7.2% at December 31, 2006. Historically, our delinquency rate has increased, and we anticipate an increase in the future, as the mortgage loans in our portfolio age. We may change our policies in ways that harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our investment and financing policies and our policies with respect to other activities, including our growth, debt capitalization, distributions, REIT status of the REIT and operating policies are determined by our board of directors. Our board of directors may change these policies at any time without a vote of our stockholders. A change in these policies might harm our financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. A sustained reduction of our mortgage origination volume could harm us financially. The amount of mortgage loans we originate has reduced substantially in recent periods. This is a result of decreased demand for mortgage loans by investors which is primarily the result of increased delinquencies and early payment defaults, as well as general perceptions about the non-prime market. Additionally, demand among borrowers for mortgage products has decreased significantly in recent months as the real estate market has cooled. Any sustained period of reduced origination volume is likely to significantly harm our business. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to, without limitation, securitizations structured as financings, allowance for losses on mortgage loans held for investment, valuation adjustments for mortgage loans held for sale to the lower of cost or market (“LOCOM”), allowance for repurchase losses, gain on sale of mortgage loans, income taxes and derivative instruments designated and documented as hedges. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded. We face intense competition that could adversely impact our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies, Internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low, and from traditional bank and thrift lenders that have entered the non-prime mortgage industry. As we seek to expand our business further, we will face a significant number of additional competitors, many of whom will be well established in the markets we seek to penetrate. Some of our competitors are much larger, have better name recognition, and have far greater financial and other resources than us. The government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also participants in the non-prime mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows 45 them to purchase mortgage loans with lower rates or fees than we are willing to offer. A material expansion of the government sponsored entities involvement in the market to originate or purchase non-prime mortgage loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, such losses could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the non-prime mortgage industry. The recent announcement by Freddie Mac that it is curtailing its purchase of certain non-prime mortgages could adversely affect investor perceptions. The intense competition in the non-prime mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale structure and information and technology systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, we rely on software and other technology-based programs to gather and analyze competitive and other data from the marketplace. Problems with our technology or inability to implement technological changes may, therefore, result in delayed detection of market trends and conditions. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a mortgage loan, less stringent underwriting standards, offering of mortgage loan products which we do not offer, convenience in obtaining a mortgage loan, customer service, amount and term of a mortgage loan and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition in the non-prime mortgage industry. Price competition could prevent us from raising rates in response to a rising cost of funds or cause us to lower the interest rates that we charge borrowers, which could adversely impact our profitability and lower the value of our mortgage loans. If our competitors adopt less stringent underwriting standards, we will be pressured to do so as well, which would result in greater mortgage loan risk without compensatory pricing. If we do not relax underwriting standards in response to our competitors, we may lose market share. Any increase in these pricing and underwriting pressures could reduce the volume of our mortgage loan originations and sales and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Any future economic slowdown could increase delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and reduce our ability to originate mortgage loans. Any future economic slowdown or recession may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit, decreased real estate values, and increased rates of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Any material decline in real estate values would increase the mortgage loan-to-value ratios (“LTVs”) on mortgage loans that we hold pending sale and mortgage loans in which we have a residual or retained interest, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the possibility and severity of a loss if a borrower defaults. We originate mortgage loans to borrowers who make little or no down payment, resulting in higher LTVs. A lack of equity in the home may reduce the incentive a borrower has to meet his payment obligations during periods of financial hardship, which might result in higher delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. These factors would reduce our ability to originate mortgage loans and increase our losses on mortgage loans in which we have a residual or retained interest. In addition, mortgage loans we originate during an economic slowdown may not be as valuable to us because potential purchasers of our mortgage loans might reduce the premiums they pay for the mortgage loans to compensate for any increased risks arising during such periods. Any sustained increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures is likely to significantly harm the pricing of our future mortgage loan sales and securitizations and also our ability to finance our mortgage loan originations. 46 A future increase in interest rates could result in a reduction in our mortgage loan origination volumes, an increase in delinquency, default and foreclosure rates and a reduction in the value of, and income from, our mortgage loans. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: • A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate mortgage loans because refinancing an existing mortgage loan would be less attractive and qualifying for a purchase mortgage loan may be more difficult. • Existing borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages or higher risk mortgage loan products may incur higher monthly payments as the interest rate increases, or experience higher delinquency and default rates. • If prevailing interest rates increase after we fund a mortgage loan, the value that we receive upon the sale or securitization of the mortgage loan decreases. • The cost of financing our mortgage loans prior to sale or securitization is based primarily upon the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). The interest rates we charge on our mortgage loans are based, in part, upon prevailing interest rates at the time of origination, and the interest rates on all of our mortgage loans are fixed for at least the first six months, or two, three or five years. If LIBOR increases after the time of mortgage loan origination, our net interest income—which represents the difference between the interest rates we receive on our mortgage loans pending sale or securitization and our LIBOR-based cost of financing such mortgage loans—will be reduced. The weighted average cost of financing our mortgage loans, prior to sale or securitization, was 5.78% during the year ended December 31, 2006. • When we securitize mortgage loans or sell mortgage loans with retained interests, the value of and the income we receive from the mortgage loans held for investment subject to portfolio-based accounting and the mortgage-related securities we retain are also based on LIBOR to the extent the underlying mortgage loans have an adjustable interest rate. This is because the income we receive from these mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities is based on the difference between the fixed rates payable on the mortgage loans for the first two or three years, and an adjustable LIBOR-based yield payable to the senior security holders or mortgage loan purchasers. We also have interest rate risk when the mortgage loans become adjustable after their two or three year fixed rate period. This is due to the mortgage loan rates resetting every six months, subject to various caps and floors, versus the monthly reset on the rate passed through to the investors in the mortgage-related securities and holders of the securitization bonds that is not typically subject to any caps or floors. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be significantly harmed as a result of increased interest rates. Our business may be significantly harmed by a slowdown in the economy or a natural disaster in the states of California or Florida, where we conduct a significant amount of business. A significant portion of the mortgage loans we have originated, purchased or serviced has been secured by properties in California and Florida. During the year ended December 31, 2006, 15% and 12% of the principal balance of the mortgage loans we originated were collateralized by properties located in California and Florida, respectively. At December 31, 2006, 17% and 14% of the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans we serviced were collateralized by properties located in California and Florida, respectively. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of a natural disaster that is not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as an earthquake, hurricane or wildfire, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties in these states. This, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on mortgage loans in our portfolio or that we have sold to others. This could restrict our ability to originate, sell, or securitize mortgage loans, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 47 Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of mortgage loans held for sale and the amount of interest expense paid related to our securitization bonds. We cannot assure you, however, that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we will not have offsetting gains or losses in mortgage loan values after accounting for our derivative financial instruments. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and recorded transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. Our rights to cash flow from our securitized mortgage loans held for investment subject to portfolio-based accounting are subordinate to senior interests and may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the mortgage loan payment stream only generates enough cash flow to pay the senior interest holders. As part of the credit enhancement for our securitizations, the net cash flow that we receive from the mortgage loans held for investment generally represents the excess of amounts, if any, generated by the underlying mortgage loans over the amounts required to be paid to the senior security holders or mortgage loan purchasers. This excess amount is also calculated after deduction of servicing fees and any other specified expenses related to the sale or securitization. These excess amounts are derived from, and are affected by, the interplay of several factors, including: • the extent to which the interest rates of the mortgage loans exceed the interest rates payable to the senior security holders or mortgage loan purchasers; • the level of losses and delinquencies experienced on the underlying mortgage loans; and • the extent to which the underlying mortgage loans are prepaid by borrowers in advance of scheduled maturities. During each year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we completed securitizations of mortgage loans totaling $2.4 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. Any combination of the factors listed above may reduce the income we receive from and the value of our mortgage loans held for investment. If we do not manage the size of operations effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. Historically, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. In addition to growth by direct expansion, we have also grown by acquiring the stock or assets of other mortgage companies. For example, our acquisition of Aames added approximately 1,450 employees upon its completion in October 2006. As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,294 employees and by December 31, 2006, we had approximately 4,200 employees (1,177 of which were attributable to our acquisition of Aames). Many of these employees have very limited experience with us and a limited understanding of our systems and controls. Given the recent slowdown in origination volume and in order to preserve capital we have made significant reductions to our number of employees. As of May 31, 2007, we had approximately 2,700 employees, and we may implement additional reductions in our number of employees and other cost-saving measures. In light of these recent challenges, we cannot assure you that we will be able to: • meet our capital needs; • retain qualified employees; 48 • size our systems effectively; • allocate our human resources optimally; • satisfactorily perform our servicing obligations; or • effectively integrate the components of any businesses that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. The failure to manage the size of our operations would significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. An interruption in, or breach of, our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Changes in our size of operations or mortgage loan production may require significant changes in these systems. Any failure, interruption or breach in the security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer mortgage loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in mortgage loan servicing. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur, or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. The success and growth of our business will be affected by our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties, and efficiently process mortgage loan applications and closings strongly affects our ability to originate mortgage loans. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our business. In addition, competition and increasing regulation may increase our reliance on technology as a means to improve efficiency. Implementing this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. As these requirements increase in the future, we will have to fully develop these technological capabilities to remain competitive or our business will be significantly harmed. AHL’s mortgage lending and servicing licenses may be suspended or revoked in one or more states or provinces if the filing of AHL’s audited financial statements is significantly delayed. AHL is required to file annual audited financial statements with certain U.S. state and Canadian provincial mortgage licensing authorities, and is currently operating under oral and written waivers of such filing requirements. AHL expects to satisfy such filing requirements at or about the time that this Form 10-K is filed with the SEC; however, if such filings are significantly delayed, AHL’s mortgage lending and servicing licenses may be suspended or revoked in one or more such jurisdictions. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of independent brokers, our mortgage loan origination business will decrease. A significant majority of our originations of mortgage loans comes from independent brokers. During 2006, 85% of our mortgage loan originations were originated through our broker network. Our brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks, the failure of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 49 Our financial results fluctuate as a result of seasonality and other timing factors, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance and may affect the price of our common stock. Our business is generally subject to seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general pattern of housing sales, which typically peak during the spring and summer seasons. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future, reflecting the seasonality of the industry. Further, if the closing of a sale of mortgage loans is postponed, the recognition of gain from the sale is also postponed. If such a delay causes us to recognize income in the next quarter, our results of operations for the previous quarter could be significantly depressed. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of mortgage loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties including the information contained in the mortgage loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to mortgage loan funding, the value of the mortgage loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the mortgage loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our own employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. If a mortgage loan is subject to a material misrepresentation, we are typically unable to sell or are required to repurchase the loan if it was sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation, such persons and entities are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered as a result of their actions. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our mortgage loan origination operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our mortgage loan originations. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts in other parts of our operations. If we experience or detect a significant number of such fraudulent or negligent acts, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. We may be required to conform to the standards of the recent Ameriquest settlement, which could harm our business. In January 2006, ACC Capital Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries Ameriquest Mortgage Company, Town & Country Credit Corporation and AMC Mortgage Services Inc., formerly known as Bedford Home Loans, which we refer to collectively as “Ameriquest,” reached a settlement with various state Attorneys General resolving some of the regulatory complaints and consumer claims made against Ameriquest relating to alleged predatory home mortgage lending. By the terms of the settlement, the second largest federal consumer protection settlement in history, Ameriquest agreed to implement certain new standards and to pay $325 million to the states, with most of the money to be used to pay restitution to consumers who obtained mortgage loans from Ameriquest between January 1999 and December 2005. In the settlement, Ameriquest denied all allegations but agreed to implement certain new standards and practices meant to prevent a recurrence of its alleged abuses and unfair and deceptive practices. Many of the settlement’s requirements far exceed any express requirements of existing lending laws. Although we believe our historical controls and practices have operated effectively to mitigate the risk of the abuses alleged in the Ameriquest settlement, in many cases our controls and policies are not identical to those prescribed by the Ameriquest settlement. However, some Attorneys General have made public statements that the conduct required by the Ameriquest settlement should be seen as new standards applicable to the entire industry and that they may pursue actions against lenders who do not adhere to the new standards. If the Attorneys General seek to apply these standards to the entire industry or our company in particular, some of our own practices could be called into 50 question and our revenues, business, results of operations and profitability could be harmed. In addition, if it becomes accepted practice that settlements entered with Attorneys General establish new standards for the industry as a whole and supersedes existing express legislative requirements, the standards by which we are governed will become less predictable and the risks associated with our business will increase. Various legal proceedings are pending and more may be filed in the future which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits seeking significant monetary damages. See “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 for a description of material legal actions in which we are involved. Additional litigation may be filed against us or disputes may arise in the future concerning these or other business practices. In addition, lawsuits have been filed, and other lawsuits may be filed in the future, against our competitors and other businesses, and although we are not a party to such litigation, the results of such lawsuits may create additional risks for, or impose additional costs or limitations on, our business operations. As courts resolve individual or class action litigation related to our industry, regulations and standards could emerge necessitating material increases in our costs of doing business or preventing us from participating in certain business activities in which we currently engage. For instance, if various plaintiffs prevail on claims that prescreened offers of credit do not qualify as firm offers of credit under the FCRA, and thus that we are not authorized to access certain consumer credit reports in relation to such offers, then our business practices and ability to offer and close certain lines of credit would be impaired and our revenues, results of operations, business and profitability could be harmed. The outcome of litigation and other legal matters is always uncertain. One or more legal matters could result in losses material to our financial condition, results of operations, business and profitability. If the prepayment rates for our mortgage loans are different than expected, our results of operations may be significantly harmed. When a borrower pays off a mortgage loan prior to the mortgage loan’s scheduled maturity, the impact on us depends upon when such payoff or “prepayment” occurs. Our prepayment losses generally occur after we sell or securitize our mortgage loans and the extent of our losses depends on when the prepayment occurs. If the prepayment occurs: • within 12 to 18 months following a whole mortgage loan sale, we may have to reimburse the purchaser for all or a portion of the premium paid by the purchaser for the mortgage loan, again resulting in a loss of our profit on the mortgage loan; or • after we have securitized the mortgage loan or sold the mortgage loan in a sale, we lose the future income from that mortgage loan. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans vary from time to time and tend to increase during periods of declining interest rates. Of the securitized mortgage loans we serviced during the year ended December 31, 2006, 29% were prepaid. We seek to minimize our prepayment risk through a variety of means, including originating a significant portion of mortgage loans with prepayment penalties with terms of two to five years. No strategy, however, can completely insulate us from prepayment risks, whether arising from the effects of interest rate changes or otherwise. See “Statutory and Regulatory Risks” below for a discussion of statutes related to prepayment penalties. 51 Our interest-only mortgage loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing mortgage loans and, therefore, may be considered less valuable than other types of mortgage loans in the sales and securitization process. Our fixed-rate mortgages or adjustable-rate mortgage loans may have initial interest-only periods, typically five years, during which the monthly payments are limited to the amounts required to pay accrued interest due on the mortgage loans. During the year ended December 31, 2006, originations of interest-only mortgage loans totaled $2.1 billion, or 13.6%, of total originations. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the smaller monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. However, upon expiration of the interest-only payment, the borrower’s payment will increase to cover the fully amortizing payment. The adjustment to the higher payment amount increases the risk that the borrower will default or prepay the mortgage loan. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related mortgage loan will be greater than otherwise would be the case, increasing the risk of loss in that situation. For those reasons, among others, these interest-only mortgage loans may be less valuable in the secondary market and may result in lesser proceeds to us when sold or securitized as compared to fully amortizing mortgage loans. Decreasing home prices or increasing interest rates may reduce our earnings in connection with our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 61% of our mortgage loan production volume consisted of cash-out refinancings. This concentration increases the risk that our earnings will be reduced if interest rates rise or the prices of homes decline, which would reduce the demand and production volume for this type of refinancing. A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could significantly reduce the number of borrowers who would qualify or elect to pursue a cash-out refinancing and result in a decline in that origination source. Similarly, decreasing home prices reduce the amount of equity available to be borrowed against in cash-out refinancings and result in a decrease in our mortgage loan production volume from that origination source. Therefore, our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination volume subjects us to risks that could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows from our residual securities and our securitizations structured as financings may be harmed. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, a borrower who enters military service after the origination of the borrower’s mortgage loan generally may not be charged interest above an annual rate of 6% during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. A prolonged, significant military mobilization as part of the war on terrorism or the war in Iraq could increase the number of the borrowers in our securitized pools who are subject to the Act and thereby reduce the interest payments collected from those borrowers. To the extent the number of borrowers subject to the Act is significant, the cash flows we receive from mortgage loans underlying our securitizations structured as financings and from our residual interests would be reduced, which could cause us to reduce the carrying value of our residual interests and could decrease our earnings. In addition, the Act imposes limitations that would impair the ability of the servicer to foreclose on an affected mortgage loan during the borrower’s period of active duty status, and, under certain circumstances, during an additional three month period thereafter. Any such reduction in our cash flows or impairment of our ability to exercise our rights that would otherwise be available could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. 52 We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our servicing activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Statutory and Regulatory Risks The scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we originate mortgage loans in all 50 states, in the District of Columbia and Canada, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal and international laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict non-prime mortgage loan origination activities in those cities and counties. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, to accurately interpret and to properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. In light of the recent challenges in the mortgage industry, numerous legislative and regulatory proposals have been offered or enacted at the federal, state, and local government levels to address perceived market failures, address abusive lending practices, and restrict loan products, terms and conditions. For example at the federal level, the federal banking agencies published Interagency Guidance on Nontraditional Product Risks on October 4, 2006 and a Statement on Subprime Lending on June 29, 2007. At the state level, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (CSBS) and the American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators (AARMR) issued Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks on November 14, 2006 and, on July 17, 2007, the CSBS, AAMR and the National Association of Consumer Credit Administrators issued a Statement on Subprime Mortgage Lending, each of which guidance documents are intended to substantially mirror the federal guidance. More than three dozen states have adopted in some fashion the Guidance on Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks and the CSBS has asserted that 26 states are prepared to adopt on an expedited basis the Statement on Subprime Mortgage Lending. In addition, government enforcement actions and private litigation may increase given the current scrutiny of the industry. These developments could, among other things, limit our ability to offer loan products, reduce the pool of applicants who are eligible to obtain loans and restrict the volume and profitability of our loan origination, investment and servicing activities, in addition to increasing our exposure to risks of noncompliance with governing law and regulations. As a result, these developments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, recently enacted and changed laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainties for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations due, in many cases, to their lack of 53 specificity. As their applications evolve over time and new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, we may incur higher costs of compliance resulting from ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to: • civil and criminal liability; • loss of approved status; • demands for indemnification or mortgage loan repurchases from purchasers of our mortgage loans; • class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; or • delisting of our shares from securities markets. Stockholder refusal to comply with regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do business in certain states. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements on our officers and directors and persons holding certain amounts, usually 10% or more, of our common stock. If any person holding such an amount of our stock fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our authority to conduct business in that state. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. The mortgage brokers from whom we obtain mortgage loans are subject to legal obligations which are parallel to, but separate from, the legal obligations that we are subject to as a lender. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, federal and state agencies have increasingly sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender in which the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its mortgage loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. Also, the United States Justice Department in the past has sought to hold a non-prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. The increasing number of federal, state and local “anti-predatory lending” laws may restrict our ability to originate, or increase our risk of liability with respect to, certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. In recent years, several federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, that are intended to eliminate so-called “predatory” lending practices. These laws, rules and regulations impose certain restrictions on mortgage loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate (“APR”) exceeds specified thresholds, commonly referred to as “high cost” mortgage loans. Some of these restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a mortgage loan is underwritten. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of mortgage loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of or participated in the violation. 54 We have generally avoided and will continue to avoid originating “high cost” mortgage loans because the rating agencies generally will not rate securities backed by such mortgage loans, and the companies that buy our mortgage loans and/or provide financing for our mortgage loan origination operations generally do not want to buy or finance such mortgage loans. The continued enactment or adoption of these laws, rules and regulations may prevent us from making certain mortgage loans that we would otherwise make, may cause us to cease operations in certain jurisdictions altogether and may cause us to reduce the APR or the points and fees on mortgage loans that we do make. In addition, the difficulty of managing the risks presented by these laws, rules and regulations may decrease the availability of warehouse financing and the overall demand for non-prime mortgage loans, making it difficult to fund, sell or securitize any of our mortgage loans. If we decide to relax our restrictions on mortgage loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with such laws, rules and regulations, including demands for indemnification or mortgage loan repurchases from our lenders and mortgage loan purchasers, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual mortgage loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. If nothing else, the growing number of these laws, rules and regulations will increase our cost of doing business, as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. Any of the foregoing could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our guarantee of the Series A preferred shares of the REIT is senior to claims of our common stockholders. Our guarantee of dividend and principal payments on the Series A preferred shares of the REIT is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness but is senior to our common stock. As a result, upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding, the holders of the Series A preferred shares will be entitled to be paid in full under the guarantee before any payment may be made to holders of our common stock. Our right to participate in distribution of assets of our subsidiaries upon the latter’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to proper claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We are a holding company and our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated liabilities have been incurred by our subsidiaries. Therefore, our right to participate in the distribution of assets of any subsidiary upon the latter’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors, except to the extent that we may be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary, in which case our claims would still be subject to the prior claims of any secured creditor of such subsidiary and of any holder of indebtedness of such subsidiary that is senior to that held by us. Additionally, on March 30, 2007, the Company entered into a $230 million term loan with Farallon, which provided Farallon rights to all unencumbered assets of the Company (See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Recent Developments). If the REIT fails to maintain its status as a real estate investment trust, the REIT will be subject to federal and state income tax on taxable income at regular corporate rates, and the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted as a result. The REIT was organized to qualify for taxation as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). The REIT has conducted, and intends to continue to conduct, its operations so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some on an annual and some on a quarterly basis, established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the REIT’s control. For instance, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, the REIT’s shares of beneficial interest must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year 55 of twelve months (other than the first year for which an election to be a real estate investment trust has been made) or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Also, no more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the REIT may be beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) (the “Ownership Test”). Furthermore, each year the REIT must distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of the REIT’s taxable income (the “Annual Distribution Requirements”). We cannot assure you that the REIT will at all times satisfy these rules and tests. If the REIT were to fail to timely meet the Annual Distribution Requirements, satisfy the Ownership Test or otherwise qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the REIT would be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the REIT would also be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce the REIT’s net earnings and cash flow available for distribution to shareholders, including to us as holder of the REIT’s common shares, because of its additional tax liability for the years involved. Additionally, distributions to shareholders would no longer be required to be made by the REIT. Accordingly, the REIT’s failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and the value of the common stock held by our stockholders. Moreover, in order to satisfy the Ownership Test, among other purposes, the REIT’s Declaration of Trust establishes certain ownership restrictions on its shares of beneficial interest. For example, no person, unless exempted by the REIT’s board of trustees, may beneficially own more than 9.8% of the value of all outstanding shares of the REIT. Even with this restriction, depending on the concentration of ownership of our stock and the relative value in the REIT’s common and preferred shares, it is possible that our ownership of the REIT’s common shares would cause the REIT to fail to satisfy the Ownership Test. In such a situation, the Declaration of Trust would require that the number of the REIT common shares held by us which causes the REIT to fail to satisfy the Ownership Test be transferred to a charitable trust at a price no greater than the fair market value of the REIT common shares as of such date, and we would have no future beneficial interest in such REIT common shares (including the right to vote or receive dividends on such REIT common shares). The market price of our common stock has been and in the future may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated due to a number of factors, including: • changes in housing costs; • variations in quarterly operating results; • investor perceptions of our company and the mortgage industry generally (including the non-prime and nonconforming mortgage industry); • the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering; • changes in interest rates; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • general economic and other national conditions and the impact they may have on the operating assets of the Company; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • changes in financial estimates and forecasts published by securities analysts, or changes in ratings. We can make no assurances that the market price for our common stock will not continue to make substantial fluctuations. In addition, renewed terrorist attacks, or threats of attacks, may contribute to global unrest, an economic slowdown and to instability in the U.S. and other global equity markets. All of these factors may increase the volatility of our stock price. 56 Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At each annual meeting of stockholders, the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire, and new directors will be elected to serve for three years. The term of the first class expires at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the term of the second class expires in 2008, and the term of the third class expires in 2009. Thus, it will take at least two annual meetings to effect a change in control of our board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting, which may delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire or effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would be favorable to our stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are presently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock in the future could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire or effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would be favorable to our stockholders. Our bylaws contain provisions that require stockholders to act only at a duly-called meeting and make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly-called meeting by requiring such other person to follow certain notice procedures. Finally, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such things would be in the best interests of our stockholders. Risk Factors Related to the Proposed Merger Our businesses may be adversely impacted by the pending merger with Lone Star and if the pending merger is not consummated. We have spent significant time and money preparing for the pending merger of the Company with Lone Star. There are uncertainties and other factors that may affect our business prior to consummation of the merger, including: • the outcome of any litigation and judicial actions that have been or may be instituted against us and others relating to the merger agreement, including legislative action, referenda and taxation; • certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, are payable by us whether or not the merger is completed; 57 • risks that the proposed transaction disrupts our current plans and operations, and the potential difficulties for our employee retention as a result of the announcement of the merger; and • the effect of the announcement of the merger on our customer relationships, operating results and business generally. There are also uncertainties and other factors that may affect the timing of the consummation of the merger, as well as if the merger will be consummated, including: • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; • the inability to complete the merger due to the failure to obtain 50% of the shares through the tender offer, stockholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to consummation of the merger; • the failure of the merger to close for any other reason; • risks that the proposed transaction disrupts our current plans and operations, and the potential difficulties for our employee retention as a result of (a) any delay of the completion of the merger, or (b) the completion of the merger; and • the effect of the completion of the merger on our customer relationships, operating results and business generally. In addition, the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 