ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors (in addition to others) could have a material impact on our business: Decreased spending by advertisers and changes in U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business Since virtually all of our revenue is generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, a recession or downturn in the United States economy could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operation, its financial position and future price of the Company’s common stock, as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could decrease our revenues and profit margins. In addition, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by local or regional economic downturns. 25 Table of Contents We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations or other types of media competitors We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our radio stations compete for audiences, creative and performing talent, broadcast rights, market share and advertiser support with other radio stations and station groups, as well as with other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet, hand held programmable devices, such as iPods and cellular phones, and direct mail. Audience ratings, performance-based revenue arrangements and market shares are subject to change, and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that local region, but national advertisers as well. Any adverse change in a particular market, or in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, or any adverse change in listeners’ preferences could have a material adverse effect on our revenue (since advertising sales are based on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air) or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future and these companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings, lower market share and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic changes, personnel or other programming changes, a decline in broadcast listening trends or other reasons. Any failure by us to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. If we lose key personnel, including executives or on-air talent, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, primarily our chairman and chief executive officer, Farid Suleman. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by Mr. Suleman would be difficult to replace, and his loss could have a material adverse effect on us, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. Mr. Suleman does not have a formal employment agreement. Additionally, our radio stations employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective broadcast markets. These on-air personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station, and for the ability of the station to sell advertising. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with our Company or will retain their audiences. Our business depends upon licenses issued by the FCC, which if not renewed, would materially impair our business Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are issued currently for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. Renewal applications are pending with respect to certain of our radio station licenses. On March 1, 2006, one party filed a petition to deny the license renewal applications of nine Citadel radio stations licensed to communities in Connecticut and Rhode Island. Although we opposed the petition to deny, believe it to be without merit, and anticipate that the FCC will grant the subject renewal applications, it is not possible to predict with certainty how the FCC will rule on these renewal applications. We cannot assure you that our pending or future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations, could 26 Table of Contents result in material impairment and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we fail to renew, or renew with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), any of our licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. In addition, we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some radio stations, including the possible divestiture of 11 stations in connection with our pending merger. Additionally, the FCC is considering further changes to its media ownership rules, which may limit our ability to expand our media holdings. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the FCC’s more rigorous enforcement of its indecency regulations against the broadcast industry as well as by the increased amounts of the potential fines The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions recently, chiefly with regard to radio stations, that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. Moreover, the FCC has recently begun imposing separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. In the ordinary course of business, we have received complaints or the FCC has initiated inquiries about whether a limited number of our radio stations have broadcast indecent programming. To the extent that these inquiries or other proceedings by the FCC may result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, then our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected. In order to remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being developed, including the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers (both landline and wireless), new consumer products such as portable digital audio players, such as iPods and cellular phones, other personal communications systems, and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, which now has two subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous channels and niche formats and sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; 27 Table of Contents • In-Band On-Channel™ digital radio (HD Radio™), which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM radio signals, including stations owned by us; and • low power FM radio, which has resulted in additional FM radio broadcast outlets that are designed to serve small, localized areas. The radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in the car such as audio cassettes, compact discs, satellite digital audio radio and cellular telephones. A growing population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times have contributed to this growth. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, will compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that this historical growth will continue. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our company structure, we depend on our subsidiary for cash flow and our access to this cash flow is restricted All of our radio stations are currently owned and operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Citadel Broadcasting Company, and our liquidity is dependent on its ability to generate cash flow and borrow under its Senior Credit Facility. Our only source of cash to pay our obligations, including among others paying interest and principal on our convertible subordinated notes, paying dividends on our common stock and purchasing shares of our outstanding common stock, paying certain overhead expenses and certain trade payables, is distributions from our subsidiary of its net earnings and cash flow. We currently expect that the net earnings and cash flow of Citadel Broadcasting Company will be retained and used by it in its operations, including servicing its Senior Credit Facility obligations, before distributions are made to us. Even if Citadel Broadcasting Company elects to make distributions to us, we cannot be assured that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including the dividend covenants contained in Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility, would permit such dividends or distributions to us. The covenants in Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility restrict our financial and operational flexibility Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Citadel Broadcasting Company, is the borrower under its Senior Credit Facility. Its Senior Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict, among other things, its ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, swap or sell assets, or merge or consolidate. An event of default under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility also requires it to maintain specified financial ratios. Citadel Broadcasting Company’s ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that it will meet those ratios. We also may incur future debt obligations in connection with future acquisitions that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to other events of default. The debt we incur in connection with future acquisitions may require us to modify or enter into a new bank facility if certain covenants in Citadel Broadcasting Compnay’s Senior Credit Facility would be violated, subjecting us to an event of default. We have substantial indebtedness which could limit our ability to grow and compete and have important consequences to you As of December 31, 2006, we had indebtedness of approximately $731.0 million, consisting of $330.0 million of convertible subordinated notes and $401.0 million under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior 28 Table of Contents Credit Facility. This indebtedness is substantial in amount and could have an impact on us. For example, these obligations could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes, including funding future expansion and ongoing capital expenditures; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limit our ability to compete, expand and make capital improvements; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and • limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility, as of December 31, 2006, it may borrow up to an additional $196.8 million under the revolving portion of the credit facility, subject to compliance with the covenants thereunder at the time of borrowing. Citadel Broadcasting Company may borrow under its Senior Credit Facility as needed to fund its working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and to fund the acquisitions of additional radio stations. Moreover, should we complete the merger with ABC Radio, borrowings outstanding under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility could become payable as of the closing date. We have received a commitment from a lender, which commitment is subject to customary closing conditions, to provide debt financing to us in connection with the completion of the Merger and related transactions including our payment of the special distribution, the refinancing of Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility, the refinancing of ABC Radio’s debt and the completion of the Merger. We also may seek to obtain other funding or additional financing for any or all of the following transactions: (1) the acquisition of additional radio stations; (2) the full or partial redemption of our outstanding debt; (3) the payment of dividends, including the payment of the special dividend as provided for as part of the pending merger with ABC Radio; and (4) the buyback of our common stock. We have no assurances that we will be able to obtain other funding, additional financing or the approvals, if necessary, for any of these transactions. Any additional borrowings could further increase the amount of our indebtedness and the associated risks. There are risks associated with our pending business combination with the ABC Radio stations and ABC Radio Network Our pending business combination with the ABC Radio stations and ABC Radio Network involves risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance as to the timing of the closing of the Merger, or whether the Merger will close at all. Factors that could cause the Merger to be delayed or to fail to close at all include: • the failure to obtain governmental approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule, including IRS and antitrust approvals and the effectiveness of certain filings with the SEC; • if the FCC deems there to be a “substantial change” in control (as defined under the FCC’s rules and policies) as a result of the transaction, we will likely be required to divest up to eleven stations in seven markets in order to obtain FCC approval to consummate the Merger; • the failure to receive required tax rulings or tax opinions; and • a material adverse change in the business, assets, financial condition or results of our operations or the operations of ABC Radio. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results. 29 Table of Contents The ABC Radio Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights and provides that, upon the termination of the ABC Radio Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay to TWDC a termination fee of $81 million. The ABC Radio Merger Agreement imposes certain restrictions on our ability to conduct acquisitions and make dispositions prior to the closing. Additionally, we are limited in our ability to issue equity instruments prior to and after the closing. In connection with the closing of the Merger, our financial leverage will be substantially increased. We will be required to refinance borrowings outstanding under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility, incur significant indebtedness to finance the special distribution as of the closing date and refinance ABC Radio’s debt. This increased indebtedness could limit our ability to, among other things: • compete with competitors that are better capitalized than us; and • react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. If we are unsuccessful in the litigation matter involving the Company’s convertible subordinated notes and there is deemed a default under the indenture, it could have important consequences to you The Company sought a declaratory judgment with regard to its convertible subordinated notes that by entering into the ABC Radio Merger Agreement and the other agreements relating to the ABC Radio transaction it did not constitute a fundamental change for purposes of the indenture. If entering into these agreements were held to be an event of default, subject to the terms and conditions of the indenture, the trustee under the indenture or holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding convertible subordinated notes could declare the principal of and accrued interest on all convertible subordinated notes to be due and payable, and there could be an event of default under Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility. If the convertible subordinated notes or Citadel Broadcasting Company’s Senior Credit Facility were to become due and payable, the Company would seek additional funding in the credit or capital markets, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company. We are controlled by affiliates of Forstmann Little & Co., whose interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VI, L.P., Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VII, L.P., Forstmann Little & Co. Subordinated Debt and Equity Management Buyout Partnership-VII, L.P. and Forstmann Little & Co. Subordinated Debt and Equity Management Buyout Partnership-VIII, L.P., which we refer to as the Forstmann Little partnerships, own approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2007. Accordingly, they will be able to: • elect our entire board of directors; • control our management and policies; and • determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They will also be able to prevent or cause a change in control of us and amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws at any time. Certain of our directors and officers have or have had relationships with Forstmann Little & Co. Theodore J. Forstmann, a member of Citadel’s board of directors, is the senior partner of Forstmann Little & Co. Two of our other directors, Mr. Forstmann’s brother, J. Anthony Forstmann, and Michael A. Miles, as well as our chairman and chief executive officer, Farid Suleman, are special limited partners of Forstmann Little & Co. Mr. Miles also 30 Table of Contents serves on the Forstmann Little advisory board and is an investor in certain portfolio companies of Forstmann Little. Another of our directors, Wayne T. Smith is, and one of our former directors, Sandra J Horbach, who resigned during 2006, was a limited partner of two of the funds that own shares of common stock of Citadel. Mr. Smith also is a director of 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of Forstmann Little & Co. As a result of their relationships with Forstmann Little & Co., Messrs. Theodore Forstmann, J. Anthony Forstmann and Smith have, and Ms. Horbach had, an economic interest in certain of the Forstmann Little & Co. partnerships and their portfolio investments, including Citadel. Of those directors, however, only Mr. Theodore Forstmann has any voting or investment power over the shares of common stock of Citadel. Another director, Herbert J. Siegel, serves as a director of IMG Worldwide, Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of Forstmann Little & Co. In addition, our other director who resigned during 2006, David Checketts, is a director of IMG worldwide, Inc. and may perform consulting and provide other services to IMG from time to time. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of the Forstmann Little partnerships and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors and officers may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts as to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, or the transaction is otherwise fair to us. The interests of the Forstmann Little partnerships may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our stock price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly Our common stock has been publicly traded since August 2003. The market price of our common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. As a result, the market price of our common stock could materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. The price of our common stock may vary due to a number of factors, including without limitation: • the amount of indebtedness and liquidity of Citadel and/or should our merger with ABC Radio be completed, the amount of indebtedness and liquidity of the combined company; • the payment of any dividends, including the special distribution should it occur as contemplated under the ABC Radio Merger Agreement; • changes in the regulatory environment; • market assessments of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed and that ABC Radio will be integrated effectively into Citadel; • market assessments of our operating results and financial condition and/or should our merger with ABC Radio be completed, the operating results and financial condition of the combined company, including of the prospects of post-merger operations and synergies; • the timing of the completion of the Merger; and • general market, business and economic conditions. We cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of our common stock. Future sales of common stock by Forstmann Little & Co. could adversely affect the price the Company’s common stock The market for our common stock could fall substantially if Forstmann Little & Co. sold large amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, among other 31 Table of Contents factors, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. Future losses could be caused by future asset impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill As of December 31, 2006, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 90% of the Company’s total assets, the value of which depends significantly upon the operating results of our business. Interim and/or annual impairment testing, as applicable, are required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” and could result in future impairment losses. Factors that could result in future impairment losses are further discussed in the section below “Critical Accounting Policies” within Item 7. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that may inhibit a takeover Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware law, may inhibit changes in control that are not approved by our board of directors and could delay or prevent a change of control of Citadel that its stockholders may favor. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limiting the ability to call special meetings of stockholders to the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the president or chief executive officer of the company; and • advance notice requirements for nominations of director candidates. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be unable to effectively integrate future acquisitions The integration of acquisitions involves numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the management of a large and geographically diverse group of stations; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of acquired stations. The risks of integration are magnified during any period of significant growth. We cannot be assured that we will be able to integrate successfully any operations, systems or management that might be acquired with regard to acquisition in the future. In addition, in the event that the operations of a new business do not meet expectations, we may restructure or write off the value of some or all of the assets of the new business, including the ABC Radio stations and the ABC Radio Network. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease each of the company’s revenues or expose them to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. In addition, an Act of God 32 Table of Contents or a natural disaster could adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. For example, Hurricane Katrina and the aftermath left in its wake significantly impacted the operations of our New Orleans radio cluster. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the FCC carefully review our proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, FTC and/or FCC will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations in any market where we already have a significant position. Our failure to comply under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance was required as of December 31, 2004. This effort included documenting and testing our internal controls. As of December 31, 2006, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In future years, there are no assurances that we will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that we will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. In addition, should our pending merger with ABC Radio be completed, there are no assurances that the combined company will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that the combined company will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 