ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors (in addition to others) could have a material impact on our business: Decreased spending by advertisers can adversely affect our advertising revenue. Since virtually all of our revenue is generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, a recession or downturn in the United States economy could have an adverse effect on us as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. In addition, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by local or regional economic downturns. For example, in 2001, due to weakness in the general advertising sector and in our markets, which was further exacerbated by the events of September 11, our pro forma net broadcasting revenue declined 8.5%. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations or other types of media competitors. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations and station groups, as well as with other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet, hand held programmable devices, such as IPODs and direct mail. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change. Any adverse change in a particular market, or adverse change in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenue in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. Our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenue. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a new station may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations for audiences and advertisers, or stations might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings and advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic or other reasons. Any failure by us to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. If we lose key personnel, including on-air talent, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, primarily our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Farid Suleman. We believe that the unique combination of skills and 24 Table of Contents experience possessed by Mr. Suleman would be difficult to replace, and his loss could have a material adverse effect on us, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. Mr. Suleman does not have a formal employment agreement. Additionally, our radio stations employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective broadcast markets. These on-air personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a station, and for the ability of the station to sell advertising. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with our radio stations or will retain their audiences. If we cannot renew our FCC licenses, our business will be impaired. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are issued currently for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. We cannot assure you that our pending or future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew, or renew with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years) any of our licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations. The Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and the FCC carefully review our proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Among other things, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, which we refer to as the Communications Act, and FCC rules and policies limit the number of broadcasting properties that any person or entity may own, directly or by attribution, in any market and require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses. The filing of petitions or complaints against us or any FCC licensee from which we acquire a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, or refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies also impose limitations on non-U.S. ownership and voting of our capital stock. On June 2, 2003, the FCC concluded an omnibus rulemaking proceeding in which it examined all broadcast ownership rules, including the local radio ownership rule, the broadcast-newspaper ownership rule, the radio-television cross-ownership rule, the local television ownership rule, the national television ownership rule and the dual network rule. The FCC made significant changes to the local radio ownership rule and the way that it reviews radio station transactions. As a result of these changes, our existing station portfolio exceeds the applicable ownership limit in several markets. Existing ownership combinations, however, are “grandfathered,” meaning the FCC will not require us to divest stations that we currently own in order to come into compliance with the new rules. We would be required to divest stations to comply with the existing rule if there is a “substantial change” in control (as defined under the FCC’s rules and policies) of the Company or we attempt to acquire additional stations in the market. We would also not be permitted to transfer grandfathered clusters to a third party, unless the third party is a “small business” as defined by the FCC. The new rules will limit our ability to acquire radio stations that we would have been permitted to acquire under the old rules. Various aspects of these rule changes were appealed by a number of different entities. The rules were to become effective on September 4, 2003, but were stayed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit on September 3, 2003. On September 3, 2004, the Third Circuit issued an Order granting in 25 Table of Contents part a request filed by the FCC to partially lift the court’s stay. The Order permitted the new local radio ownership rules adopted June 2, 2003 to go into effect. A number of parties also filed requests with the FCC seeking reconsideration of certain aspects of the new rules, including, without limitation, the grandfathering provisions discussed above. A number of parties have urged Congress to undertake a comprehensive review of the Communications Act, including its ownership provisions, and proposals may be introduced in Congress which could result in still different ownership rules affecting, among other matters, the number of stations that may be owned in a common geographic area and whether existing combinations would be considered as “grandfathered.” There are risks associated with our pending business combination with the ABC Radio stations and ABC Radio Network. Our pending business combination with the ABC Radio stations and ABC Radio Network involves risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance as to the timing of the closing of the merger, or whether the merger will close at all. Factors that could cause the merger to be delayed or to fail to close at all include: • the failure to obtain governmental approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule, including antitrust approvals and the effectiveness of certain filings with the SEC; • if the FCC deems there to be a “substantial change” in control (as defined under the FCC’s rules and policies) as a result of the transaction, the Company may be required to divest up to eleven stations in seven markets in order to obtain FCC approval to consummate the merger; • the failure to receive required tax rulings or tax opinions; and • a material adverse change in the business, assets, financial condition or results of operations of the Company or TWDC. The ABC Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights and provides that, upon the termination of the ABC Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay to TWDC a termination fee of $81 million. The ABC Radio Merger Agreement imposes certain restrictions on our ability to conduct acquisitions and make dispositions prior to the closing. In light of this pending merger, the Company does not currently intend to make any significant acquisitions. Additionally, the Company is limited in our ability to issue equity instruments prior to the closing. In connection with the close of the transaction, the Company’s financial leverage will be substantially increased. This increased indebtedness could limit our ability to • compete with competitors that are better capitalized than us; and • react to changing market conditions, changes in our industry and economic downturns. In order to remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being developed, including the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, which is provided by two companies offering national satellite radio services, including numerous niche formats, with sound quality comparable to that of compact discs; 26 Table of Contents • In-Band On-Channel™ digital radio, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM stations, including stations owned by us; and • low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets designed to serve small, localized areas. We are controlled by affiliates of Forstmann Little & Co., whose interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VI, L.P., Forstmann Little & Co. Equity Partnership-VII, L.P., Forstmann Little & Co. Subordinated Debt and Equity Management Buyout Partnership-VII, L.P. and Forstmann Little & Co. Subordinated Debt and Equity Management Buyout Partnership-VIII, L.P., which we refer to as the Forstmann Little partnerships, own approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2006. Accordingly, they will be able to: • elect our entire board of directors; • control our management and policies; and • determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They will also be able to prevent or cause a change in control of us and amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws at any time. Theodore J. Forstmann is the senior partner of Forstmann Little & Co. Mr. Forstmann serves as a member of our board of directors. Our chairman and chief executive officer Farid Suleman is a special limited partner of Forstmann Little & Co. and also provides advice and consulting services to Forstmann Little & Co. Two other directors, Michael A. Miles and J. Anthony Forstmann are special limited partners of Forstmann Little & Co. Mr. Miles also serves on the Forstmann Little advisory board and is an investor in certain portfolio companies of Forstmann Little. J. Anthony Forstmann is the brother of Theodore J. Forstmann. Another director, David Checketts, is a director of IMG Worldwide, Inc. and may perform consulting and provide other services to IMG from time to time. Forstmann Little & Co. owns a majority of the outstanding equity in IMG. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of the Forstmann Little partnerships and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors and officers may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts as to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest and as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, or the transaction is otherwise fair to us. The interests of the Forstmann Little partnerships may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our stock price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly. Our common stock has been publicly traded since August 2003. The market price of our common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. As a result, the market price of our common stock could materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our failure to comply under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance was required as of December 31, 2004. This effort included documenting and testing our internal 27 Table of Contents controls. As of December 31, 2005, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. In future years, there are no assurances that we will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that we will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We have indebtedness that could limit our ability to grow and compete. Our financial leverage and, as a result, our debt service obligations, may have an impact on our financial results and operations, including limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt payments or other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2005, we had indebtedness of approximately $652.5 million, consisting of $330.0 million of convertible subordinated notes and $322.5 million under our credit facility. Under our credit facility, as of December 31, 2005, we may borrow up to an additional $277.5 million under the revolving portion of our credit facility, excluding $2.2 million in outstanding letters of credit. We may reborrow under our revolving credit facility as needed to fund our working capital needs, for general corporate purposes and to fund the acquisitions of additional radio stations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 