Risk Factors section above. Shares of our preferred stock eligible for future issuance and sale could also have a dilutive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Although our board of directors has no present intent to issue additional shares of preferred stock following the Private Placement, such shares could be issued in the future. If such shares of preferred stock are made convertible into shares of common stock, there could be a dilutive effect on the shares of common stock then outstanding. In addition, shares of preferred stock may be provided a preference over holders of common stock upon our liquidation or with respect to the payment of dividends, in respect of voting rights or in the redemption of our common stock. The rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions applicable to any series or preferred stock would be determined by resolution of our board of directors. We also have a Warrant outstanding to the U S. Treasury Department to purchase 432,290 shares of the Company’s authorized but unissued common stock at an exercise price of $9.54 per share until December 12, 2018. The holders of our Series A perpetual preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In December 2008, the Company issued and sold $55.0 million worth of its Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury Department. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock could reduce investment returns to the Company’s common shareholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing shareholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. The Company’s board of directors suspended its quarterly cash dividends beginning in the first quarter of 2009, and unless the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed, the Company will not be able to resume paying cash dividends without the consent of the U.S. Treasury Department. The Company will also be prohibited paying any dividends on its common stock in the event of any unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock also ranks senior to the Company’s common stock on liquidation. The liquidation amount of the Series A Preferred Stock is $1,000 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock ranks pari passu to the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, which means that if all dividends payable on the Series B Preferred Stock have not been paid in full, any dividend declared on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be declared and paid pro rata with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock. 34 Table of Contents If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock by December 12, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 12, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5% per annum (approximately $2.7 million annually) to 9% per annum (approximately $5.0 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, we had $18.0 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to our statutory trust. The trust purchased the junior subordinated debentures from us using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock, Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock or preferred stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to shareholders. If certain conditions are met, we have the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) at any time or from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters in a deferral period, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock or any series of preferred stock. Our directors and executive officers control a large amount of our stock, and your interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of February 1, 2010, our directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 17.0% of the Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they might be able to affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. In some situations, the interests of our directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, our directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions in our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent changes in control of our corporation or our management. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the price that you receive if you sell your shares in the future. These provisions include the following: • no cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • The requirement that our board of directors consider the potential social and economic effects on our employees, depositors, customers and the communities we serve as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of the Company. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC’s Staff 180 days or more before the end of the Company’s fiscal year 2009 relating to the Company’s periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 