ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions concerning the Company’s common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial but may also impair the Company’s business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. Changes in economic conditions in our market areas could hurt our business materially. A substantial majority of our loans are generated in the greater Los Angeles area of Southern California. The Los Angeles area has, at times, experienced a stagnant economic activity in line with slowdowns in California. The State of California continues to face challenges with the subprime mortgage situation upon which the long-term impact on the State’s economy cannot be predicted. A deterioration in economic conditions in Southern California is occurring, whether caused by national concerns or local concerns, and this may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in the values of the collateral that we take to secure our loan portfolio, a decrease in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in low cost or non-interest bearing deposits; any of which may materially hurt our business. While our market areas have not experienced the same degree of challenges as other parts of the state, no assurance can be given that this will continue to be the case. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no nonperforming commercial real estate loans and no subprime mortgage loans Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a real estate recession or natural disaster. Approximately $1.3 billion or 69.8% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007, and $1.1 billion or 69.7% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006, were concentrated in commercial real estate and construction loans. Of this amount, $322.6 million represented loans secured by industrial buildings, and $171.7 million represented loans secured by retail shopping centers as of December 31, 2007. Although commercial loans generally provide for higher interest rates and shorter terms than single-family residential loans, such loans generally involve a higher degree of risk, as the ability of borrowers to repay these loans is often dependent upon the profitability of the borrowers’ businesses. The Southern California real estate market ended 2006 with declining prices and a slower sales pace and has maintained these levels into 2007. If real estate sales and appreciation continue to weaken, the Company might experience an increase in nonperforming assets in its commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loan portfolios. The result of such an increase result could be reduced income, increased expenses, and less cash available for lending and other activities. Such an increase may have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results 14 Table of Contents of operations, by reducing the Company’s income, increasing the Company’s expenses, and leaving less cash available for lending and other activities. Total nonperforming loans increased to $6.3 million as of December 31, 2007 from $3.3 million as of December 31, 2006, representing 0.35% and 0.21%, respectively, of total loans. Total nonperforming loans, net of SBA guarantees, were $3.9 million as of December 31, 2007 as compared to $2.3 million as of December 31, 2006. The increases were the result of additions to non-accrual status in the Company’s SBA, trade finance and consumer loan portfolio offset by the reductions in the commercial loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had no nonperforming commercial real estate loans and no subprime mortgage loans. As the primary collateral for many of the Company’s loans rests on commercial real estate properties, deterioration in the real estate market in the areas the Company serves could reduce the value of the collateral value for many of the Company’s loans and negatively impact the repayment ability of many of its borrowers. Such deterioration would likely also reduce the amount of loans the Company makes to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact its business. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the banking regulators have begun to give commercial real estate or “CRE” loans greater scrutiny, due to perceived risks relating to the cyclical nature of the real estate market and the related risks for lenders with high concentrations of such loans. The regulators may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, and may possibly require higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. The Company may experience loan losses in excess of its allowance for loan losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level it believes is adequate to absorb any inherent losses in the loan portfolio. However, changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that are beyond the Company’s control may cause its actual loan losses to exceed current allowance estimates. If the actual loan losses exceed the allowance for loan losses, it would aversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company tries to limit the risk that borrowers will fail to repay loans by carefully underwriting the loans. Losses nevertheless occur. The Company establishes a loan loss allowance for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the statements of financial condition date. The Company bases allowance on estimates of the following: • industry standards; • historical loss experience; • evaluation of current economic conditions; • assessment of risk factors for loans with exposure to the economies of southern California and Pacific Rim countries; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying the Company’s loans. All of the Company’s lending involves underwriting risks, especially in a competitive lending market. At December 31, 2007, commercial real estate loans represented 66.0% of the Company’s total loan portfolio; commercial lines and term loans to businesses represented 17.2% of the Company’s total loan portfolio; and SBA loans represented 3.9% of the Company’s total loan portfolio. 15 Table of Contents Real estate lending involves risks associated with the potential decline in the value of underlying real estate collateral and the cash flow from income producing properties. Declines in real estate values and cash flows can be caused by a number of factors, including adversity in general economic conditions, rising interest rates, changes in tax and other governmental and other policies affecting real estate holdings, environmental conditions, governmental and other use restrictions, development of competitive properties, and increasing vacancy rates. The Company’s dependence on commercial real estate loans increases the risk of loss both in the Company’s loan portfolio and with respect to any other real estate owned when real estate values decline. The Company seeks to reduce risk of loss through underwriting and monitoring procedures. Commercial lending, even when secured by the assets of a business, involves considerable risk of loss in the event of failure of the business. To reduce such risk, the Company typically takes additional security interests in other collateral, such as real property, certificates of deposit or life insurance, and/or obtains personal guarantees. Specific risks associated with SBA lending are discussed in a separate risk factor below. The Company has specific risks associated with Small Business Administration loans. The Company realized $618,000 $3.3 million, $2.5 million, and $4.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in gains recognized on secondary market sales of SBA loans. The Company has regularly sold the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of these loans in the secondary market in previous years. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to continue originating these loans, or that a secondary market will continue to exist for, or that it will continue to realize premiums upon, the sale of the SBA loans. During 2007, management determined that the sale of the guaranteed portions of SBA loans was not in the best interest of the Company. The credit environment recently has negatively impacted the market values of SBA loans by approximately 15 to 20%. The federal government presently guarantees approximately 75% of the principal amount of each qualifying SBA loan. The Company can provide no assurance that the federal government will maintain the SBA program, or if it does, that such guaranteed portion will remain at its current funding level. Furthermore, the Company can provide no assurance that it will retain the preferred lender status, which, subject to certain limitations, allows it to approve and fund SBA loans without the necessity of having the loan approved in advance by the SBA, or that if it does, the federal government will not reduce the amount of such loans. The Company believes that the SBA loan portfolio does not involve more than a normal risk of collectibility. However, since the Company has sold some of the guaranteed portions of the SBA loan portfolio, the Company incurs a pro rata credit risk on the non-guaranteed portion of the SBA loans since the Company shares pro rata with the SBA in any recoveries. In the event of default on an SBA loan, pursuit of remedies against a borrower subject to SBA approval, and where the SBA establishes that its loss is attributable to deficiencies in the manner in which the loan application has been prepared and submitted, the SBA may decline to honor its guarantee with respect to the SBA loans or it may seek the recovery of damages from the Company. As of December 31, 2007, SBA loans comprised 64% of the Company’s total nonperforming assets compared to 41% as of December 31, 2006. These loans typically have approximately 75% guaranteed by the SBA. For additional discussion see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition – Loan Portfolio” in Item 2. Adverse developments in the Company’s litigation could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. From time to time, the Company or the Bank is involved in litigation. If litigation arises, the Company or the Bank will vigorously enforce and defend its rights. Litigation may result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of the Company’s or the Bank’s management personnel from their day-to-day responsibilities. In addition, in the event of an adverse result in litigation, the Company or the Bank could also be required to pay substantial damages. The Bank is currently a party to a lawsuit involving substantial claims entitled Korea Export Insurance Corporation v. Korea Data Systems (USA), Inc., et al. If the outcome of this litigation is adverse and the Bank is required to pay significant monetary damages, the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations are likely to be materially and adversely affected. Although the Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend these lawsuits, management cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. In addition, the Bank’s defense of this lawsuit, regardless of its eventual outcome, has been and will likely continue to be costly and time consuming. For a more detailed discussion of this lawsuit, see “Item 3–Legal Proceedings.” The Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain banking customers at current levels, and its efforts to compete may reduce profitability. Competition in the banking industry in the markets served and to be served by the Company may limit the Company’s ability to continue to attract and retain banking customers. The banking business in the Company’s current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. While the Company’s primary market area is generally dominated by a relatively small number of major banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area, the Company’s 16 Table of Contents three main competitors in its niche markets are three Korean-American banks of which two are comparable in size and the third is twice its asset size, which also focus their business strategies on Korean-American consumers and businesses. Primary competitors in the greater Chicago and Seattle metropolitan areas are also locally owned and operated Korean-American banks and subsidiaries of Korean banks. These competitors have branches located in many of the same neighborhoods as the Company, provide similar types of products and services and use the same Korean language publications and media for their marketing purposes. There is a high level of competition within this specific market. While major banks have not historically focused their marketing efforts on the Korean-American customer base in Southern California, their competitive influence could increase in the future. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than the Company, offer certain services the Company cannot, and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than the Company on a per loan or per asset basis. In addition to competitive factors impacting the Company’s specific market niche, the Company is affected by more general competitive trends in the banking industry, including intra-state and interstate consolidation, competition from non-bank sources and technological innovations. Ultimately, competition can and does increase the Company’s cost of funds and drive down its net interest margin, thereby reducing profitability. It can also make it more difficult for the Company to continue to increase the size of its loan portfolio and deposit base, and could cause the Company to need to rely more heavily on borrowings, which are generally more expensive than deposits, as a source of funds in the future. See “Item 1, Business – Competition.” The Company may have difficulty managing its growth. The Company’s total assets have increased to $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2007 from $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company opened on average, two new branch offices from 2002 through 2005, one new branch in 2007, and plans to add four additional banking offices in 2008 as a result of the acquisition of First Intercontinental Bank. The Company intends to investigate other opportunities to open additional branches that would complement the Company’s existing business as such opportunities may arise; however, the Company can provide no assurance that it will be able to identify additional locations or open additional branches. The Company’s ability to manage its growth will depend primarily on its ability to: • monitor operations; • control costs; • maintain positive customer relations; and • attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel. If the Company fails to achieve those objectives in an efficient and timely manner, the Company may experience interruptions and dislocations in its business, which could substantially increase the expenses and negatively impact the ability to retain the Company’s customers. In addition, such concerns may cause federal and state banking regulators to require us to delay or forgo any proposed growth until such problems have been addressed to the satisfaction of those regulators. The acquisition of First Intercontinental Bank may subject us to unknown risks. On September 18, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire First Intercontinental Bank (“FICB”), a Georgia state-chartered commercial bank with assets of approximately $225 million as of September 30, 2007. The acquisition involves potential risks that may materially affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of our acquisition of FICB. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. Certain events may arise after the date of the acquisition of FICB, or we may learn of certain facts, events or circumstances after the closing of the acquisition, that may affect our financial condition or performance or subject us to risk of loss. These events include, but are not limited to: litigation resulting from circumstances occurring at FICB prior to the date of acquisition, loan downgrades and credit loss provisions resulting from underwriting of certain acquired loans determined not to meet our credit standards, increased risk from fluctuations in interest rates, delays in implementing new policies or procedures or implementing our internal control over financial reporting at FICB, or the failure to apply new policies or procedures and other events relating to the performance of our business. We also make certain estimates and assumptions in order to determine purchase price allocation and estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. If our estimates or assumptions used to value acquired assets and liabilities are not accurate, we may be exposed to gains or losses that may be material and possible impairment of goodwill. 17 Table of Contents Unanticipated costs relating to the merger could reduce the Company’s future earnings per share. The Company believes it has reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of FICB into the Company and the incremental costs of operating as a combined company. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or unexpected future operating expenses such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of the Company after the merger. If unexpected costs are incurred, the merger could have a significant dilutive effect on the Company’s earnings per share. In other words, if the merger is completed and the Company incurs such unexpected costs and expenses as a result of the merger, the Company believes that the earnings per share of the Company’s common stock could be less than they would have been if the merger had not been completed. FICB had total assets of approximately $225 million as of September 30, 2007, compared to $183 million, $131.4 million and $96.2 million as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate FICB’s operations and retain key FICB’s employees. The merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include: • coordinating geographically separated organizations; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; • combining different corporate cultures; and • retaining key employees. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel. The integration of the two companies will require the experience and expertise of certain key employees of First Intercontinental who are expected to be retained by the Company. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate FICB’s operations with those of the Company. Four of FICB’s senior personnel – the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, and the Senior Loan Officer – recently resigned. The Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Loan Officer have been replaced. The Company is working very closely with FICB to appoint additional replacement officers and to assist in overseeing and supporting critical functions in order to maintain the business momentum during the interim period until the closing. The Company plans to replace some, but not all, of the vacant positions effective as of the closing. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. As with any merger of banking institutions, there also may be business disruption that causes the Company and FICB to lose customers or cause customers to take their deposits or move their loans out of our banks and move their business to other financial institutions. The Company may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. The Company expects to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions, and to continue to engage in de novo branch expansion in the future. The Company may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the risk that the acquired banks will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations; • the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired banks with the operations of the Company’s banking businesses; • the risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of the Company’s business; • the risk that the Company may lose key employees of the acquired banks; 18 Table of Contents • the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which the Company has limited or no direct prior experience; and • the risks of the acquired banks which the Company may assume as a result of the acquisition. The Company depends on its executive officers and key personnel to implement its business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. The Company believes that its growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of its management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of the Company’s key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain or motivate key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its existing key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. The Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer joined the Company in January 2007; its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer joined the Company in an acting capacity in February 2007 and as permanent Chief Financial Officer in April 2007; its Executive Vice President and General Counsel joined the Company in February 2007; its Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer joined the Company in 1991 as Senior Vice President and Manager of the SBA Department, and was promoted to his current position in April 2007; and its Senior Vice President and Chief Lending Officer joined the Company in April 2006 as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, and was promoted to her current position in April 2007. While the President and Chief Executive Officer has a 3-year employment agreement for a term beginning in January 2007, his employment may be terminated by him or by the Company at any time. None of the Company’s other officers have employment agreements. The Company’s earnings are subject to interest rate risk, especially if rates fall. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for products and services. The Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. Given the current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, the interest rate spread could be expected to decrease during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to increase during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse or a positive effect on results of operations. See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Interest Rate Risk.” Center Financial might not be able to continue to pay cash dividends in the future. As a bank holding company which currently has no significant assets other than Center Financial’s equity interest in the Bank, Center Financial’s ability to pay dividends depends on the dividends it receives from the Bank. The dividend practice of the Bank depends on its earnings, financial position, current and anticipated cash requirements and other factors deemed relevant by its board of directors at that time. In addition, during any period in which Center Financial has deferred payment of interest otherwise due and payable on its subordinated debt securities, it may not make any dividends or distributions with respect to our capital stock. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources.” Center Financial paid quarterly cash dividends of 5 cents per share in July and October 2007 and 4 cents per share in January and April of 2007 and in each quarter of 2006 and 2005, Center Financial currently plans to continue to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, the amount of any such dividend will be determined each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion, based on the factors described in the previous paragraph. No assurance can be given that future performance will justify the payment of dividends in any particular quarter. As a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, substantially all of Center Financial’s revenue and cash flow, including funds available for the payment of dividends and other operating expenses, is dependent upon the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries. Dividends payable to Center Financial by the Bank are restricted under California and federal laws and regulation. See “Item 5, Market for Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters—Dividends.” 19 Table of Contents Center Financial’s and the Bank’s directors and executive officers control a large amount of the Company’s stock and shareholders’ interests may not always be the same as those of the board and management. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s directors and executive officers together with their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 23.8% of Company’s outstanding voting stock (not including vested option shares). As a result, if all of these shareholders were to take a common position, they would be able to significantly affect the election of directors as well as the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Such concentration may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Center Financial. In some situations, the interests of Center Financial’s directors and executive officers may be different from the shareholders. However, Center Financial’s board of directors and executive officers have a fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the shareholders, rather than in their own best interests, when considering a proposed business combination or any of these types of matters. Provisions contained in Center Financial’s Articles of Incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or its management These provisions include: • the elimination of cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • a requirement that the Company’s board of directors consider the potential social and economic effects on the Bank’s employees, depositors, customers and the communities served as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of Center Financial; and • staggered terms of office for members of the board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult for another company to acquire the Company, which could reduce the market price of the company’s common stock and the price that the shareholder may ultimately receive when their stock is sold. The Board of Directors has recently approved an amendment to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation which would eliminate the staggered terms of office for directors and re-institute the annual election of directors, subject to approval of the shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. The Company’s compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of its activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require the Company to maintain adequate capital to support its growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the Company’s cost of compliance could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are now applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The Company may incur additional costs for environmental clean up. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages or penalties associated with environmental problems could increase the Company’s operating expenses. If a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company will often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. The Company also could be compelled to assume the 20 Table of Contents management responsibilities of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on their loans. The Company also leases premises for its branch operations and corporate office in locations where environmental problems may exist. Although the Company has lending and facility leasing guidelines intended to identify properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of these properties. As a result, environmental laws could force the Company to clean up the hazardous waste located on these properties (at the Company’s expense) and cost might exceed their fair market value. Further, even if environmental laws did not hold the Company responsible for the environmental clean up of such properties, it might be difficult or impossible to sell properties until the environmental problems were remediated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 