ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors (in addition to others) could have a material impact on our business: We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan. With regard to any proposed plan of reorganization, the debtor seeking confirmation of a plan may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm such plan. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are received, we intend to seek confirmation of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are not received, we may nevertheless seek Confirmation of the Plan notwithstanding the existence of a dissenting class or classes. The Bankruptcy Court may confirm the Plan pursuant to the “cramdown” provisions of the Bankruptcy Code if the plan satisfies section 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. To confirm a plan over the objection of a dissenting class, the Bankruptcy Court also must find that at least one impaired class (which cannot be an “insider” class) has accepted the plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of a proposed plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court is not obligated to confirm the plan as proposed. A dissenting holder of a claim against us could challenge the balloting procedures as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, which could mean that the results of the balloting may be invalid. If the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures were appropriate and the results were valid, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan, if the Bankruptcy Court found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met. If our Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, (a) we may not be able to reorganize our businesses; (b) the distributions that holders of claims ultimately would receive, if any, with respect to their claims are uncertain; and (c) there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan that will be acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the holders of claims. It is also possible that third parties may seek and obtain approval from the Bankruptcy Court to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period during which only we may propose and confirm a plan of reorganization. 26 Table of Contents Our emergence from chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code is not assured. While we expect to emerge from chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, there can be no assurance that we will successfully reorganize or when this reorganization will occur, irrespective of our obtaining confirmation of the Plan. The conditions precedent to the Effective Date of the Plan may not occur. As more fully set forth in the Plan, the Effective Date is subject to a number of conditions precedent. If such conditions precedent are not met or waived, the Effective Date will not take place. We may not be able to achieve our projected financial results. The financial projections that we have set forth in an exhibit to the Disclosure Statement represent our management’s best estimate of our future financial performance based on the information that was available to management at the time of the estimate. The estimate incorporated facts and assumptions about our future operations as well as the U.S. and world economy in general and the industry segments in which we operate in particular. Our actual financial results may differ significantly from the projections and, as such, could impact the Plan and confirmation of the Plan. If we do not achieve our projected financial results, the trading prices of the New Common Stock may be negatively affected, and we may lack sufficient liquidity to continue operating as planned after the Effective Date of the Plan. Moreover, the financial condition and results of operations of Reorganized Citadel from and after the Effective Date of the Plan may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. Our restructuring will eliminate our net operating loss carryforwards and reduce our current tax attributes. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $91.3 million of net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes (expiring in the years 2025 and 2029). In addition, as of such date, we had approximately $109.8 million of net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes, expiring in years 2013 through 2029. Currently, such tax net operating losses can accumulate and be used to offset our future taxable income. As a result of implementation of the Plan, we expect our net operating loss carryforwards to be eliminated. In addition, we expect certain tax attributes, primarily tax basis in depreciable and amortizable assets, to be reduced due to the Plan and, therefore, future tax deductible depreciation and amortization will be significantly reduced. Indebtedness may adversely affect Reorganized Citadel’s operations and financial condition. According to the terms and conditions of the Plan, upon confirmation, Reorganized Citadel is expected to have outstanding indebtedness of approximately $762.5 million under the New Term Loan. Reorganized Citadel’s ability to service its debt obligations will depend upon, among other things, its future operating performance. These factors depend partly on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond Reorganized Citadel’s control. Reorganized Citadel may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet its debt service obligations as well as fund necessary capital expenditures. In addition, if Reorganized Citadel needs to refinance its debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets or equity, it may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any default under the New Term Loan could adversely affect their growth, financial condition, results of operations, the value of their equity and ability to make payments on such debt. Reorganized Citadel may incur significant additional debt in the future. If current debt amounts increase, the related risks that Reorganized Citadel now faces will intensify. 27 Table of Contents The New Term Loan Agreement is expected to contain certain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect Reorganized Citadel’s ability to operate its business, as well as significantly affect its liquidity. The New Term Loan Agreement is expected to contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect Reorganized Citadel’s ability to operate its businesses, as well as significantly affect its liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect Reorganized Citadel’s results of operations. These covenants are expected to restrict (subject to certain exceptions) Reorganized Citadel’s ability to: incur additional indebtedness; grant liens; consummate mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets; pay dividends and make other payments in respect of capital stock; make capital expenditures; make investments, loans and advances; make payments and modifications to subordinated and other material debt instruments; enter into transactions with affiliates; consummate sale-leaseback transactions; change its fiscal year; enter into hedging arrangements (except as otherwise expressly permitted); allow third parties to manage its stations, and sell substantially all of the stations’ programming or advertising; transfer or assign FCC licenses to third parties; and change its lines of business. In addition, Reorganized Citadel will be required to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The breach of any covenants or obligations in the New Term Loan, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the New Term Loan Agreement and could trigger acceleration of those obligations. Any default under the New Term Loan could adversely affect Reorganized Citadel’s growth, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make payments on debt. Decreased spending by advertisers and changes in the economy have had a material adverse effect on our business, and a continuing downturn in the economy may have an even greater adverse impact on the Debtors. Since virtually all of our net revenue is generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, and the net revenue of Radio Network is also dependent on national advertising, the recent downturn in the United States economy has had a material adverse impact on our revenue and profit margins. A continuing recession or further downturn in the United States economy could have an even greater adverse impact on us, as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. In addition, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by continuing local or regional economic downturns. The current state of the economy could also adversely affect our ability to collect accounts receivable from advertisers. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for audiences, creative and performing talent, broadcast rights, market share and advertiser support with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, other syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, the Internet and hand-held programmable devices, such as iPods and cellular phones. Any adverse change in a particular market or in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, or any adverse change in listeners’ preferences could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or ratings. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future or offer syndicated programming that competes with our programming, and these companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we do. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, or a station may adopt a format to compete directly with us for audiences and advertisers. These tactics could result in lower ratings, lower market share and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic changes, personnel or other programming changes, a decline in broadcast listening trends or other reasons. 28 Table of Contents We may lose key on-air talent to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors. The Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for creative and performing on-air talent with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other providers of syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, cable television, satellite television, the Internet and satellite radio. Our employees and other on-air talent are subject to change and may be lost to competitors or for other reasons. Any adverse changes in particular programs, formats or on-air talent could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract local and/or national advertisers, on our revenue and/or ratings, or could require increased expenses. Future losses could be caused by future asset impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill. As of December 31, 2009, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 65% of our total assets. The Company has recently recognized significant non-cash impairment charges relating to these assets. Interim and/or annual impairment testing, as applicable, could result in future impairment losses. The fair value of FCC licenses and goodwill is primarily dependent on the expected future cash flows of the Radio Markets and Radio Network. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the FCC licenses or goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, the Company may also be required to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could result in future impairment losses are further discussed in the section entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” within Item 7. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms. We sometimes enter into long-term contracts in the ordinary course of business for both the acquisition and distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for both the acquisition and distribution of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, contracts for the distribution of programming to satellite operators, and contracts relating to programming produced by third parties on our stations and by our network business. As these contracts expire, the parties must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if they are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose these rights, the related programming and applicable revenue. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than in the past) or the revenue from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than in the past). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the terms of the contracts will depend on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts, the size of viewer audiences, and the related contract expenses and costs. There can be no assurance that revenue from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. The loss of affiliation agreements by our network business could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our Radio Network has approximately 4,000 station affiliates and 9,000 program affiliations. It receives advertising inventory from its affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a specified time period or commercials inserted by the Radio Network into its programming. In addition, primarily with respect to satellite radio providers, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of network affiliation agreements of the Radio Network could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through reduction of advertising revenue. 29 Table of Contents The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the Internet to originate and/or distribute our station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. If we lose key executive officers, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our businesses depend upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, primarily our chairman and chief executive officer, Farid Suleman. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by Mr. Suleman would be difficult to replace, and his loss could have a material adverse effect on us, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. To remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. The radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in automobiles, as a result, in part, of an increasingly large human population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. We cannot guarantee that this historical growth will continue. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory changes may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations, some of which could result in the imposition of significant costs and expenses not previously part of our business operations. Our businesses depend upon licenses issued by the FCC, and if licenses were not renewed or we were to be out of compliance with FCC regulations and policies, our business would be materially impaired. Our businesses depend upon maintaining their broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are currently issued for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. In the last renewal cycle, all of our licenses were renewed; however, we cannot be certain that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations, could result in material impairment and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If any of our FCC licenses are not renewed, it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Further, the FCC has a general policy restricting the transferability of a station license while a renewal application for that station is pending. In addition, we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies governing the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can 30 Table of Contents own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our businesses. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time, and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. There will be FCC approval requirements in connection with emergence from chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. We operate our businesses and certain of our facilities under authority granted by the FCC. Under Section 310(d) of the Communications Act, the consent of the FCC is required for the assignment of FCC licenses or for the transfer of control of an entity that holds or controls FCC licenses. Except in the case of “involuntary” assignments and transfers of control, prior consent of the FCC is required before an assignment of FCC licenses or a transfer of control of FCC licensees may be consummated. The FCC treats emergence from bankruptcy by a licensee or its parent company as a “voluntary” transfer of control or assignment of FCC licenses when control will be transferred to a “permanent” holder, rather than to a trustee, a liquidating trust or some other court-appointed interim holder. The FCC thus expects that when the outcome of the proceeding will be a restructuring (or a sale of collateral for the benefit of the debtor’s creditors) that the restructuring (or sale) will not be implemented until the FCC has granted applications seeking approval of the new control structure and demonstrating the legal qualifications of any new parties that will have attributable ownership interests or positions in the new entity. Because the restructuring proposed under the Plan will result in new parties holding 50% or more of the stock of the restructured company, the Company has filed “long form” applications with the FCC (i.e. Form 314 (assignment) or Form 315 (transfer of control)) (“Long Form Applications”). Even though a company may emerge from bankruptcy or receivership through a court order, the transaction may not be consummated until the FCC has granted its consent to the Long Form Applications. Oppositions to our Long Form Applications (in connection with emerging from bankruptcy) can delay the process. Following the public notice of the filing of the Long Form Applications, interested parties have 30 days to file petitions to deny the applications. If petitions to deny are filed against the Long Form Applications, the applicants will have an opportunity to file an opposition, with the petitioner then having an opportunity to file a reply. The pleading cycle generally will be completed within 60 days. The FCC then will consider the applications and the filings made by the parties to the proceeding. Thus, the filing of petitions to deny or objections can significantly delay the FCC’s grant of the Long Form Applications. If no oppositions are filed against the applications and the FCC finds the applications to be in compliance with its rules and policies and finds the parties to the application qualified, the FCC may grant the applications shortly after the close of the 30 day public notice period. In some instances, the FCC may request that the applicants supply additional information through amendments to the applications. There is no time limit on how long the FCC may consider transfer applications before acting on them, but the FCC has a stated goal of processing all transfer applications within 180 days, and most applications are granted much more quickly. The FCC will not grant the applications, however, until the bankruptcy court has approved a plan of reorganization and the applications have been amended to reflect that the bankruptcy court has authorized the transaction. As a variation in the structure for FCC approval described above, the FCC also may be asked to grant consent for a court-approved voluntary transfer of control of the FCC licensees to a liquidating trust as a temporary step pending FCC action on the FCC Long Form Application to transfer control of the licensees to their permanent holder. 31 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the FCC’s more rigorous enforcement of its indecency regulations against the broadcast industry as well as by the increased amounts of the potential fines. The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. The FCC also imposes separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. We cannot predict the outcome of these court proceedings or whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. In the ordinary course of business, we have received complaints or the FCC has initiated inquiries about whether a limited number of our radio stations have broadcast indecent programming. To the extent these inquiries or other proceedings by the FCC result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. In order to remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Several media technologies and evolving industry and policy changes are being developed or have emerged, including the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers (both landline and wireless), consumer products such as portable digital audio players, iPods, cellular phones, other personal communications systems, and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, which has numerous channels and niche formats and enhanced sound quality; • HD Radio™ digital radio technology, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM stations, including stations owned by us; • low power FM radio, which has resulted in additional FM radio broadcast outlets that are designed to serve small, localized areas; and • proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay a “performance tax” or copyright royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations. The radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in automobiles, such as audio cassettes, compact discs, satellite digital audio radio and cellular telephones. A growing population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times have contributed to this growth. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that this historical growth will continue. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or 32 Table of Contents regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations, some of which could result in the imposition of significant costs and expenses not previously part of our existing business operations. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially impact the Company’s operations in specific geographic areas, as well as nationally, and it may decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease the Company’s revenue or expose it to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. In addition, an act of God or a natural disaster could adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. For example, Hurricane Katrina and the aftermath left in its wake significantly impacted the operations of our New Orleans radio cluster. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. The FTC, DOJ and FCC carefully review proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, FTC and/or FCC will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations in any market where we already have a significant position. Due to various market and financial conditions, the Company may not be able to successfully complete future dispositions of our radio stations or future acquisitions of other radio stations. We engage in strategic sales of our radio stations, as it makes financial sense to do so and meets the Company’s overall business needs, and have also been required by the FCC to divest certain of our radio stations. However, in light of the current financial and economic market conditions, both in the radio industry and in the overall U. S. economy, our consummation of future radio station dispositions, even those required divestitures, may be very difficult, and our ability to consummate future dispositions is uncertain. The number of radio stations currently for sale from our competitors has dramatically increased, and demand by third party purchasers has decreased, as potential purchasers may have difficulty securing the necessary financing to purchase our radio stations. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions of individual radio stations and groups of radio stations in order to grow the Company. However, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain, as the Company may not be able to secure the necessary financing to make additional future acquisitions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 