ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors (in addition to others) could have a material impact on our business: Decreased spending by advertisers and changes in the United States economy could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business Since virtually all of our Radio Markets’ net revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio stations, and the net revenue of our Radio Network is also dependent on national advertising, a recession or downturn in the United States economy could have an adverse effect on the Company as advertisers generally reduce their spending during economic downturns. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could decrease our revenue and profit margins. In addition, because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate advertising revenue in specific markets could be adversely affected by local or regional economic downturns. We may lose audience share and advertising revenue to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for audiences, creative and performing talent, broadcast rights, market share and advertiser support with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other syndicated programming and other media such as broadcast television, newspapers, magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, the Internet, hand-held programmable devices, such as iPods and cellular phones, and direct mail. Audience ratings, performance-based revenue arrangements and market shares are subject to change, and any adverse change in a particular geographic area could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to attract not only advertisers in that local region, but national advertisers as well. Any adverse change in a particular market or in the relative market positions of the stations located in a particular market, or any adverse change in listeners’ preferences could have a material adverse effect on our revenue (since advertising sales are based on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air) or ratings, could require increased promotion or other expenses in that market, and could adversely affect our revenues in other markets. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future or offer syndicated programming that competes with the Radio Network, and these companies may be larger and have more financial resources than us. In addition, from time to time, other stations may change their format or programming, a station may adopt a format to compete directly with us for audiences and advertisers, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. These tactics could result in lower ratings, lower market share, and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Audience preferences as to format or programming may also shift due to demographic changes, personnel or other programming changes, a decline in broadcast listening trends or other reasons. Our failure to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising revenue. We may lose key on-air talent to competing radio stations, radio networks or other types of media competitors We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Radio Markets and Radio Network compete for creative and performing on-air talent with other radio stations and station groups, radio networks, and other syndicated 27 Table of Contents programming and other media such as broadcast television, cable television, satellite television and satellite radio. Employees and other on-air talent of the Company are subject to change and their contracts are governed pursuant to certain terms and termination provisions. Any adverse change in a particular program, format or on-air talent could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract local and/or national advertisers, on our revenue and/or ratings, or could require increased expenses. As such, the loss of key on-air talent could result in lower ratings, lower market share and lower advertising revenue or increased promotion and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for us. Our failure to respond, or to respond as quickly as our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all current on-air employees and personnel or that we will be successful in renewing or extending our existing contracts with our on-air employees and personnel. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial condition As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $2,465.0 million, consisting of $330.0 million of convertible subordinated notes and $2,135.0 million under our Senior Credit and Term Facility. This indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including, but not limited to: • limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; • limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our businesses due to debt service requirements; • limiting our ability to pay quarterly dividends or to repurchase shares; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or to raise additional capital; • causing certain valuable tax attributes to expire unused; • requiring us to dispose of significant assets; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns, changing market conditions and changes in the radio broadcast industry; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; and • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates. Many of the Company’s radio stations have experienced a decline in results of operations during fiscal year 2007, including those obtained as a result of the Merger. The continuation or worsening of that decline in results of operations could have adverse effects on the Company, some of which may be material. We currently intend to obtain the funds needed to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on the factors described above, as well as our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility In addition to the debt service requirements described above, our Senior Credit and Term Facility and other material contracts of the Company impose many restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These restrictions include covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on and repurchase common stock, make other restricted payments, including dividends and investments, sell our assets, transfer all or substantially all of our assets and enter into consolidations or mergers. 28 Table of Contents Our Senior Credit and Term Facility also requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet the financial ratio and tests may be affected by future events, including some events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet the financial ratio and financial condition tests. A breach of any of the covenants, financial ratio, financial condition tests or restrictions could result in an event of default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility, in which case the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Senior Credit and Term Facility to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders under our Senior Credit and Term Facility accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and any other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. Future losses could be caused by future asset impairment of our FCC licenses and/or goodwill As of December 31, 2007, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 82% of the Company’s total assets. The Company has recently recognized significant non-cash impairment charges relating to these assets. Interim and/or annual impairment testing, as applicable, are required under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and could result in future impairment losses. The fair value of FCC licenses and goodwill is primarily dependent on the future cash flows of the Radio Markets and Radio Network. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the FCC licenses and goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, the Company may also be required to recognize additional non-cash impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could result in future impairment losses are further discussed in the section entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” within Item 7. Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms The Company enters into long-term contracts in the ordinary course of business for both the acquisition and distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for both the acquisition and distribution of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, contracts for the distribution of programming to satellite operators, and contracts relating to programming produced by third parties on our stations and by our network business. As these contracts expire, the parties must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if they are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose these rights, the related programming and applicable revenue. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than in the past) or the revenue from distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than in the past). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts will depend on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts, the size of viewer audiences, and the related contract expenses and costs. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. The loss of affiliation agreements by our network business could materially adversely affect our results of operations Our Radio Network has approximately 4,000 station affiliates and 8,500 program affiliations. It receives advertising inventory from its affiliated stations, either in the form of stand-alone advertising time within a specified time period or commercials inserted by the Radio Network into its programming. In addition, primarily with respect to satellite radio providers, we receive a fee for providing such programming. The loss of network affiliation agreements of the Radio Network could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our network programming and, therefore, its attractiveness to advertisers. Renewal on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations through reduction of advertising revenue. 29 Table of Contents The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our businesses and results of operations The Company uses studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities, and the Internet to originate and/or distribute its station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. The Company relies on third-party contracts and services to operate the Company’s origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more of our third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. If we lose key executive officers, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers, primarily our chairman and chief executive officer, Farid Suleman. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by Mr. Suleman would be difficult to replace, and his loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including impairing our ability to execute our business strategy. Mr. Suleman does not have a formal employment agreement with the Company. Our business depends upon licenses issued by the FCC, and if licenses were not renewed or we were to be out of compliance with FCC regulations and policies, our business would be materially impaired Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC, which are issued currently for a maximum term of eight years and are renewable. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. On rare occasions, the FCC has revoked licenses, not renewed them, or renewed them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term of eight years. In the last renewal cycle, all of our licenses were renewed; however, we cannot assure you that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations, could result in material impairment and could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we fail to renew, or the FCC renews any of the licenses with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of the licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. Further, the FCC has a general policy restricting the transferability of a station license while a renewal application for that station is pending. In addition, we must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies governing the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions. Additionally, the FCC is considering further changes to its media ownership rules, which may limit our ability to expand our media holdings. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Moreover, governmental regulations and policies may change over time, and the changes may have a material adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the FCC’s more rigorous enforcement of its indecency regulations against the broadcast industry as well as by the increased amounts of the potential fines The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television or radio broadcast stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the 30 Table of Contents prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC vigorously enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry as a whole. The FCC has indicated that it is stepping up its enforcement activities as they apply to indecency and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for “serious” indecency violations. The FCC has found on a number of occasions recently that the content of broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines to the offending licensees. The FCC has also expanded the breadth of indecency regulation to include material that could be considered “blasphemy,” “personally reviling epithets,” “profanity” and vulgar or coarse words amounting to a nuisance. The FCC has found that the broadcast of fleeting and isolated expletives was indecent. In June 2007, however, the Second Circuit vacated the FCC’s “fleeting expletive” policy on the ground that the FCC failed to articulate a reasoned basis for a change in its longstanding approach in this area. The Second Circuit remanded the case to the FCC for further proceedings consistent with the Second Circuit’s opinion, and the FCC has filed a petition for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court on this matter. In addition, Congress currently has under consideration legislation that addresses the FCC’s enforcement of its rules concerning the broadcast of obscene, indecent and profane material, including a law that would make future “fleeting expletives” indecent under the FCC’s jurisdiction. Moreover, the FCC has recently begun imposing separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. In addition, a new law increased the maximum forfeiture for a single indecency violation to $325,000, with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. In the ordinary course of business, we have received complaints or the FCC has initiated inquiries about whether a limited number of our radio stations have broadcast indecent programming. To the extent these inquiries or other proceedings by the FCC result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. In order to remain competitive, we must respond to changes in technology, services and standards that characterize our industry The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Several new media technologies are being developed, including the following: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, Internet content providers (both landline and wireless), new consumer products such as portable digital audio players, such as iPods and cellular phones, other personal communications systems, and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, which now has two subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous channels and niche formats and sound quality equivalent to that of compact discs; • HD Radio™ digital radio technology, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM radio signals, including stations owned by us; and • low power FM radio, which has resulted in additional FM radio broadcast outlets that are designed to serve small, localized areas. The radio broadcasting industry historically has grown despite the introduction of new technologies for the delivery of entertainment and information, including the introduction of new technologies used in automobiles, such as audio cassettes, compact discs, satellite digital audio radio and cellular telephones. A growing population, greater use of the automobile and increased commuter times have contributed to this growth. Some of the new technologies, particularly satellite digital audio radio service and Internet radio, will compete for the consumer’s attention in the car, workplace and elsewhere. We cannot assure you that this historical growth will 31 Table of Contents continue. In addition, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully integrate our historical radio station business with the radio stations and network businesses we recently acquired, we may not realize the expected benefits of the Merger We closed the Merger in June 2007 and have begun the process of integration. There is a significant degree of difficulty inherent in the process of integrating the ABC Radio Business with our historical operations. These difficulties include the challenges of: • integrating the ABC Radio Business with our historical operations while carrying on the ongoing operations of each business; • integrating sales and business development operations; • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; • retaining existing customers and other constituents of each component of the Company; and • retaining and integrating key officers and personnel. We cannot assure you that the ABC Radio Business will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into the Company. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. After the Merger, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than we did before the Merger. In addition, our range of programs, stations, advertisers, listeners and competitors is significantly expanded from our range before the Merger. The integration process requires us to significantly expand the scope of our operational and financial systems, which increases our operating complexity. Implementation of uniform controls, systems and procedures may be costly and time-consuming. In addition, in the event that the operations of the ABC Radio Businesses do not meet expectations, we may restructure or write off the value of some of the assets of the ABC Radio stations and/or the Radio Network. Alphabet Acquisition Corp. may not have adequate funds to perform its indemnity obligations to TWDC under the Separation Agreement Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alphabet Acquisition Corp., has agreed to indemnify TWDC from all liabilities relating to the liabilities assumed (or retained) by one of its predecessors under the Separation Agreement, and any liabilities (including third-party claims) imposed on, sustained, incurred or suffered by TWDC that relate to, arise out of or result from the ABC Radio Business, the ABC Radio Business assets transferred under the Separation Agreement or the failure of Alphabet Acquisition Corp. to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge a liability transferred to the ABC Radio Business under the Separation Agreement. In the event that Alphabet Acquisition Corp. becomes obligated to pay TWDC pursuant to its indemnification obligations, we cannot assure you that Alphabet Acquisition Corp. or the Company will have sufficient liquidity to meet such payment obligation or that any such payment would not result in an event of default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility. We are affected by significant restrictions with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the separation The Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement restricts us and our affiliates from taking certain actions that could cause TWDC’s internal restructuring or the Spin-Off to be taxable or that could otherwise jeopardize the tax-free status of the internal restructuring or the Spin-Off, including: • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, entering into any agreement, understanding or arrangement or engaging in any substantial negotiations with respect to any transaction involving the 32 Table of Contents acquisition of our stock or the issuance of shares of our stock, or options to acquire or other rights in respect of such stock, unless, generally, the shares are issued to qualifying employees or retirement plans, each in accordance with certain “safe harbors” under applicable regulations of Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code; • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, entering into any joint venture that includes assets of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Alphabet Acquisition Corp., or any of its subsidiaries; • for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, permitting certain subsidiaries of the predecessor of Alphabet Acquisition Corp. at the time of the Spin-Off to cease to own directly and to operate the radio station or radio network business conducted by those subsidiaries immediately prior to the Spin-Off; or, generally, entering into any transaction that would alter the ownership structure of those subsidiaries at the time of the Spin-Off; and • generally, for two years after the completion of the Spin-Off, taking any action that might be a restructuring tainting act or a distribution tainting act without receiving the prior written consent of TWDC. For this purpose, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, our affiliates include (i) our subsidiaries, (ii) Farid Suleman, (iii) any of our stockholders affiliated with FL&Co. and (iv) any other controlling stockholder of the Company, or person that is a member of a “coordinating group” with a controlling stockholder of the Company, in each case within the meaning of the applicable regulations under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Because of these restrictions, we may be precluded from buying back our stock and we may be limited in the amount of stock we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the completion of the Spin-Off and the Merger, which could have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Also, our indemnity obligation to TWDC might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. We may be required to indemnify TWDC for taxes resulting from acts prohibited by the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement In certain circumstances, under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, we are required to indemnify TWDC against taxes and related costs and liabilities of TWDC and its affiliates that arise in connection with the separation as a result of any restructuring tainting acts or distribution tainting acts by us and/or one or more of our affiliates. For this purpose, our affiliates include (i) our subsidiaries (ii) any of our stockholders affiliated with FL&Co., (iii) Farid Suleman and (iv) any other controlling stockholder of the Company, or person that is a member of a “coordinating group” with a controlling stockholder of the Company, in each case within the meaning of applicable regulations under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. If TWDC recognizes gain on the separation for reasons not related to a restructuring tainting act or distribution tainting act by us or our affiliates, TWDC would not be entitled to be indemnified by us under the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement. Our indemnity obligation to TWDC might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. In the event that we become obligated to pay TWDC pursuant to our indemnification obligations, there can be no assurance we will have sufficient liquidity to meet such payment obligations. It is also possible that any such payment would result in an event of default under our Senior Credit and Term Facility. The transaction structure may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us for a period of time following completion of the Merger Certain provisions of the Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement, which are intended to preserve the tax-free status of the Merger and separation for United States federal income tax purposes, may discourage future business combination proposals for a period of time following the Merger. 33 Table of Contents Our stock price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly Our common stock has been publicly traded since August 2003. The market price of our common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering and has declined 66% from the date of the Merger through December 31, 2007. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. As a result, the market price of our common stock could materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. The price of our common stock may vary due to a number of factors, including without limitation: • the amount of indebtedness and liquidity of the Company; • the payment of any dividends; • changes in the regulatory environment; • market assessments of the likelihood that the ABC Radio Business will be integrated effectively into the Company; • market assessments of our operating results and financial condition, including of the prospects of post-Merger operations and synergies; and • general market, business and economic conditions. We cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of our common stock. Future sales of common stock by FL&Co. could adversely affect the price of our common stock The market for our common stock could fall substantially if FL&Co. sold large amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, could, among other factors, make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that may inhibit a takeover Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Delaware law, may inhibit changes in control that are not approved by our board of directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limiting the ability to call special meetings of stockholders to the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the president or chief executive officer of the company; and • advance notice requirements for nominations of director candidates. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be unable to effectively integrate future acquisitions The integration of acquisitions involves numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the management of a large and geographically diverse group of businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. The risks of integration are magnified during any period of significant growth. We cannot be assured that we will be able to integrate successfully any operations, systems or management that might be acquired with regard to acquisitions in the future. 34 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents or similar events may substantially impact the Company’s operations in specific geographic areas, as well as nationally, and it may decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease the Company’s revenues or expose it to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks or other unforeseen similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. In addition, an act of God or a natural disaster could adversely impact any one or more of the markets where we do business. For example, Hurricane Katrina and the aftermath left in its wake significantly impacted the operations of our New Orleans radio cluster. We could experience delays in expanding our business, be prevented from making acquisitions or be required to divest radio stations due to antitrust laws and other legislative and regulatory considerations The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. The FTC, the DOJ and the FCC carefully review proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive opportunity. We can give no assurances that the DOJ, FTC and/or FCC will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations in any market where we already have a significant position. Our failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could cause a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance was required as of December 31, 2004. This effort included documenting and testing internal controls. As of December 31, 2007, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The ABC Radio Business has never been operated as a stand-alone public company, and therefore has never been subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other than as a component of TWDC. The combination of Citadel’s business with the ABC Radio Business roughly doubled the size of Citadel. There are no assurances that we will not have material weaknesses that would be required to be reported or that we will be able to comply with the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404. In addition, the costs of bringing the Company into compliance with the requirements of Section 404 may be significant. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We excluded the internal controls of the ABC Radio Business from our annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for 2007. This exclusion is in accordance with the SEC guidance that an assessment of a recently acquired business may be omitted from management’s report on internal controls over financial reporting in the year of acquisition. The ABC Radio Business contributed approximately 41% of the Company’s total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and the assets of the ABC Radio Business represent approximately 53% of the Company’s total assets as of December 31, 2007. 35 Table of Contents The Company may be influenced by its largest stockholders, whose interests may conflict with those of other stockholders Our largest stockholders, who are affiliated with FL&Co., own approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock. The principal stockholders may be able to: • influence the election of our board of directors; • influence our management and policies; and • influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. Certain of our directors have or had relationships with FL&Co. Theodore J. Forstmann is the senior partner of FL&Co., and his brother, J. Anthony Forstmann, is a special limited partner of FL&Co. Michael A. Miles also is a special limited partner of FL&Co. and serves on the Forstmann Little advisory board. Wayne T. Smith is a limited partner of two of the funds that own shares of our common stock and a director of 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide, Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of FL&Co. As a result of their relationships with FL&Co., Messrs. Theodore Forstmann, J. Anthony Forstmann, Miles and Smith have an economic interest in certain of the FL&Co. partnerships and their portfolio investments, including the Company. Of those directors, however, only Mr. Theodore Forstmann has any voting or investment power over the shares of common stock of the Company. Herbert J. Siegel serves as a director of IMG Worldwide Holdings Inc., a majority of the stock of which is controlled by certain affiliated partnerships of FL&Co. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of the FL&Co. partnerships and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors and officers may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to the Company, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as the material facts as to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, or the transaction is otherwise fair to us. Future changes in our shareholders could limit our ability to utilize federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and result in increased tax expense We have recognized a deferred tax asset for certain net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2007, the deferred tax asset is approximately $27.7 million. As a result of the Merger, we have had a greater than 50% change in control and therefore Internal Revenue Code Section 382 limits the annual amount of net operating losses that we can utilize. We believe this recent Section 382 limitation will not limit the availability of our net operating losses prior to their expiration date. However, future ownership changes could significantly impact the annual limitation and therefore limit the availability of our net operating losses prior to their expiration date. This could result in additional tax expense and higher federal and state income tax payments in future periods, which may have a material adverse impact upon our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in resolving pending litigation relating to the Company’s convertible subordinated notes, which could ultimately result in a judgment being entered against the Company if we do not prevail on the merits The Company is in the process of resolving pending litigation relating to alleged defaults under the indenture governing the Company’s 1.875% convertible subordinated notes due 2011 relating to the Company’s acquisition of the ABC Radio Business. If the Company is not successful in settling the litigation and if the Company does not prevail on the merits of the case, then a judgment may be entered against the Company. If any 36 Table of Contents of the events relating to the Company’s acquisition of the ABC Radio Business were to be an event of default under the indenture and were to be continuing, then subject to the terms and conditions of the indenture, the trustee or holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding convertible subordinated notes could declare the outstanding principal amount of $330.0 million and the accrued interest on all convertible subordinated notes at the maximum statutory rate of 9% commencing as of April 24, 2006 through the date of payment, to be immediately due and payable. Such accrued interest would approximate $41 million as of December 31, 2007. If the convertible subordinated notes were to become due and payable, the Company would need to obtain additional financing, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on terms acceptable to the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 