ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the events referred to below actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Certain statements in this Form 10-K (including certain of the following risk factors) constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 6 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition that could adversely impact our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies, Internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low, and from traditional bank and thrift lenders that have entered the non-prime mortgage industry. As we seek to expand our business further, we will face a significant number of additional competitors, many of whom will be well established in the markets we seek to penetrate. Some of our competitors are much larger, have better name recognition, and have far greater financial and other resources than us. The government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also expanding their participation in the non-prime mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are willing to offer. While the government- sponsored entities presently do not have the legal authority to originate mortgage loans, including non-prime loans, they do have the authority to buy loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase non-prime loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, such experience could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the non-prime mortgage industry. The intense competition in the non-prime mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. As mortgage products are offered more widely through alternative distribution channels, such as the Internet, we may be required to make significant changes to our current retail and wholesale structure and information and technology systems to compete effectively. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, we rely on software and other technology-based programs to gather and analyze competitive and other data from the marketplace. Problems with our technology or inability to implement technological changes may, therefore, result in delayed detection of market trends and conditions. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, less stringent underwriting standards, offering of loan products which we do not offer, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition in the non-prime mortgage industry. Price competition could prevent us from raising rates in response to a rising cost of funds or cause us to lower the interest rates that we charge borrowers, which could adversely impact our profitability and lower the value of our loans. If our competitors adopt less stringent underwriting standards, we will be pressured to do so as well, which would result in greater loan risk without compensating pricing. If we do not relax underwriting standards in response to our competitors, we may lose market share. Any increase in these pricing and underwriting pressures could reduce the volume of our loan originations and sales and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Any substantial economic slowdown could increase delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures and reduce our ability to originate loans. Periods of economic slowdown or recession may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit, decreased real estate values, and increased rates of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Any material decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratios (“LTVs”) on loans that we hold pending sale and loans in which we have a residual or retained interest, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the possibility and severity of a loss if a borrower defaults. We originate loans to borrowers who make little or no down payment, resulting in higher LTVs. A lack of equity in the home may reduce the incentive a borrower has to meet his payment obligations during periods of financial hardship, which might result in higher delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. These factors would reduce our ability to originate loans and increase our losses on loans in which we have a residual or retained interest. In addition, loans we originate during an economic slowdown may not be as valuable to us because potential purchasers of our loans might reduce the premiums they pay for the loans to compensate for any increased risks arising during such periods. Any sustained increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures is likely to significantly harm the pricing of our future loan sales and securitizations and also our ability to finance our loan originations. We finance borrowers with lower credit ratings. The non-prime loans we originate generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans, which could result in losses on loans that we hold or that we are required to repurchase, the loss of our servicing rights and damage to our reputation as a loan servicer. We are in the business of originating, selling, securitizing and servicing non-prime mortgage loans. Non-prime mortgage loans generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on loans beginning when we originate them until we sell them and we continue to bear the risk of delinquency and default after we securitize loans or sell loans with a retained interest. Loans that become delinquent prior to sale or securitization may become unsaleable or saleable only at a discount, and the longer we hold loans prior to sale or securitization, the greater the chance we will bear the costs associated with the loans’ delinquency. Factors that may increase the time held prior to sale or securitization include the time required to accumulate loans for securitizations or sales of large pools of loans, the amount and timing of third-party due diligence in connection with sales or securitizations, and defects in the loans. We also reacquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. Repurchase obligations are typically triggered in loan sale transactions if an early payment default occurs on the loan after sale or in any sale or securitization if the loan materially violates our representations or warranties. During the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 loans repurchased totaled $72.3 million and $41.9 million, respectively, pursuant to these obligations. If we experience higher-than-expected levels of delinquency or default in pools of loans that we service, we may lose our servicing rights, which would result in a loss of future servicing income and may damage our reputation as a loan servicer. We attempt to manage these risks with risk-based mortgage loan pricing and appropriate underwriting policies and loan collection methods. However, if such policies and methods are insufficient to control our delinquency and default risks and do not result in appropriate loan pricing, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be significantly harmed. Our total delinquency rate (30 or more days past due, including loans in foreclosure and converted into real estate owned) for our servicing portfolio was 2.5% at December 31, 2005. Historically, our delinquency rate has increased, and may increase in the future, as the mortgage loans in our portfolio age. 31 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates could result in a reduction in our loan origination volumes, an increase in delinquency, default and foreclosure rates and a reduction in the value of, and income from, our loans. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: • A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan would be less attractive and qualifying for a purchase loan may be more difficult. • Existing borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages or higher risk loan products may incur higher monthly payments as the interest rate increases, or experience higher delinquency and default rates. • If prevailing interest rates increase after we fund a loan, the value that we receive upon the sale or securitization of the loan decreases. • The cost of financing our mortgage loans prior to sale or securitization is based primarily upon the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). The interest rates we charge on our mortgage loans are based, in part, upon prevailing interest rates at the time of origination, and the interest rates on all of our mortgage loans are fixed for at least the first six months, or two, three or five years. If LIBOR increases after the time of loan origination, our net interest income—which represents the difference between the interest rates we receive on our mortgage loans pending sale or securitization and our LIBOR-based cost of financing such loans—will be reduced. The weighted average cost of financing our mortgage loans, prior to sale or securitization, was 4.56% during the year ended December 31, 2005. • When we securitize loans or sell loans with retained interests, the value of and the income we receive from the loans held for investment subject to portfolio-based accounting and the mortgage-related securities we retain are also based on LIBOR to the extent the underlying loans have an adjustable interest rate. This is because the income we receive from these mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities is based on the difference between the fixed rates payable on the loans for the first two or three years, and an adjustable LIBOR-based yield payable to the senior security holders or loan purchasers. We also have interest rate risk when the loans become adjustable after their two or three year fixed rate period. This is due to the loan rates resetting every six months, subject to various caps and floors, versus the monthly reset on the rate passed through to the investors in the mortgage-related securities and holders of the securitization bonds. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may be significantly harmed as a result of increased interest rates. Our business may be significantly harmed by a slowdown in the economy or a natural disaster in the states of California or Florida, where we conduct a significant amount of business. A significant portion of the mortgage loans we have originated, purchased or serviced has been secured by properties in California and Florida. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 19% and 11% of the principal balance of the loans we originated were collateralized by properties located in California and Florida, respectively. At December 31, 2005, 20% and 10% of the unpaid principal balance of loans we serviced were collateralized by properties located in California and Florida, respectively. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of a natural disaster that is not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as an earthquake, hurricane or wildfire, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties in these states. This, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on mortgage loans in our portfolio or that we have sold to others. This could restrict our ability to originate, sell, or securitize mortgage loans, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on 32 Table of Contents derivatives which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans held for sale and mortgage-related securities, as reflected in the Interest Rate Simulation Sensitivity Analysis in the section entitled Market Risk in “ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We cannot assure you, however, that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. There have been periods, and it is likely that there will be periods in the future, during which we will not have offsetting gains or losses in loan values after accounting for our derivative financial instruments. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and recorded transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. See discussion under Market Risk in “ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our business requires a significant amount of cash and if it is not available our business will be significantly harmed. Our primary sources of cash are our warehouse credit facilities, our commercial paper program and the proceeds from the sales and securitizations of our loans. We require substantial cash to fund our loan originations, to pay our loan origination expenses and to hold our loans pending sale or securitization. Also, as a servicer of loans, we are required to advance delinquent principal and interest payments, unpaid property taxes, hazard insurance premiums, and foreclosure and foreclosure-related costs. Our warehouse and commercial paper program credit facilities also require us to observe certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain levels of cash and general liquidity in our company. As of December 31, 2005, we financed substantially all of our loans through nine separate warehouse lenders and our commercial paper program. Each of these facilities is cancelable by the lender for cause at any time and at least one is cancelable at any time without cause. These facilities generally have a renewable, one-year term. Because these are short-term commitments of capital, the lenders may respond to market conditions, which may favor an alternative investment strategy for them, making it more difficult for us to secure continued financing. If we are not able to renew any of these warehouse credit facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on our covenants or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, or if the lenders do not honor their commitments for any reason, we will have to curtail our loan origination activities. This would result in decreased revenues and profits from loan sales. The timing of our loan dispositions (which are periodic) is not always matched to the timing of our expenses (which are continuous). This requires us to maintain significant levels of cash to maintain acceptable levels of liquidity. When we securitize our loans or sell our loans with a retained interest, we may not receive any amounts in excess of the principal amount of the loan for up to 12 months or longer. Further, any decrease in demand in the whole loan market such that we are unable to timely and profitably sell our loans could inhibit our ability to meet our liquidity demands. Our credit facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues. Our credit facilities contain extensive restrictions and covenants that, among other things, require us to satisfy specified financial, asset quality and loan performance tests and may prohibit inter-company dividends in certain circumstances. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. These agreements also contain cross-default provisions, so that if a default occurs under any one agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. 33 Table of Contents The covenants and restrictions in our credit facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • engage in mergers or consolidations; • finance loans with certain attributes; • reduce liquidity below certain levels; and • hold loans for longer than established time periods. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our rights to cash flow from our loans held for investment subject to portfolio-based accounting are subordinate to senior interests and may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the mortgage loan payment stream only generates enough cash flow to pay the senior interest holders. As part of the credit enhancement for our securitizations, the net cash flow that we receive from the loans held for investment generally represents the excess of amounts, if any, generated by the underlying mortgage loans over the amounts required to be paid to the senior security holders or loan purchasers. This excess amount is also calculated after deduction of servicing fees and any other specified expenses related to the sale or securitization. These excess amounts are derived from, and are affected by, the interplay of several factors, including: • the extent to which the interest rates of the mortgage loans exceed the interest rates payable to the senior security holders or loan purchasers; • the level of losses and delinquencies experienced on the underlying loans; and • the extent to which the underlying loans are prepaid by borrowers in advance of scheduled maturities. Any combination of the factors listed above may reduce the income we receive from and the value of our loans held for investment. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,294 employees and by December 31, 2005, we had 2,762 employees. Many of these employees have very limited experience with us and a limited understanding of our systems and controls. The increase in the size of our operations may make it more difficult for us to ensure that we originate quality loans and that we service them effectively. We will need to attract and hire additional sales, servicing and management personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to preserve and increase our market share. At the same time, we will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational and managerial systems and controls. We also intend to continue to grow our business in the future, which could require capital, systems development and human resources beyond what we currently have. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • meet our capital needs; • expand our systems effectively; • allocate our human resources optimally; 34 Table of Contents • identify and hire qualified employees; • satisfactorily perform our servicing obligations; or • effectively integrate the components of any businesses that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. The failure to manage growth effectively would significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We depend upon our wholesale account executives and retail loan officers to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with financial institutions, other mortgage companies and brokers, real estate agents, borrowers and others. We believe that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled executive officers, account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. Because of the difficulty in retaining qualified management personnel, we currently recruit college graduates to participate in our management trainee program. If we are unable to retain those trainees for a sufficient period following their training, we may be unable to recapture our costs of training and recruitment. In addition, if a manager leaves our company there is an increased likelihood that other members of his or her team will follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled account executives at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to originate quality mortgage loans that we are able to sell for a profit, which will reduce our revenues. We may not be able to continue to sell and securitize our mortgage loans on terms and conditions that are profitable to us. A substantial portion of our revenues comes from the gains on sale generated by sales of pools of our mortgage loans as whole loans. We make whole loan sales to a limited number of institutional purchasers, some of which may be frequent, repeat purchasers, and others of which may make only one or a few purchases from us. We cannot assure you that we will continue to have purchasers for our loans on terms and conditions that will be profitable to us. Also, even though our mortgage loans are generally marketable to multiple purchasers, certain loans may be marketable to only one or a few purchasers, thereby increasing the risk that we may be unable to sell such loans at a profit. We also rely on our ability to securitize our mortgage loans to realize a greater percentage of the full economic value of the loans. We cannot assure you, however, that we will continue to be successful in securitizing mortgage loans. Our ability to complete securitizations of our loans will depend upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including conditions in the credit and securities markets generally, conditions in the asset-backed securities market specifically, the availability of credit enhancements such as financial guarantee insurance, a senior subordinated structure or other means, and the performance of our loans previously held for investment. An interruption in, or breach of, our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. As we implement our growth strategy and increase our volume of loan production, that reliance will increase. Any failure, interruption or breach in the security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur, or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could significantly harm our business. 35 Table of Contents The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes. Our mortgage loan origination business is currently dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan applications and closings. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our business. In addition, competition and increasing regulation may increase our reliance on technology as a means to improve efficiency. Implementing this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. As these requirements increase in the future, we will have to fully develop these technological capabilities to remain competitive or our business will be significantly harmed. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of independent brokers, our loan origination business will decrease. A significant majority of our originations of mortgage loans comes from independent brokers. During 2005, 90% of our loan originations were originated through our broker network. Our brokers are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with our brokers and actively compete with us in our efforts to expand our broker networks. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker networks, the failure of which could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our financial results fluctuate as a result of seasonality and other timing factors, which makes it difficult to predict our future performance and may affect the price of our common stock. Our business is generally subject to seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general pattern of housing sales, which typically peak during the spring and summer seasons. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future, reflecting the seasonality of the industry. Further, if the closing of a sale of loans is postponed, the recognition of gain from the sale is also postponed. If such a delay causes us to recognize income in the next quarter, our results of operations for the previous quarter could be significantly depressed. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our own employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Even though we may have rights against persons and entities who made or knew about the misrepresentation, such persons and entities are often difficult to locate and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses that we have suffered as a result of their actions. We have controls and processes designed to help us identify misrepresented information in our loan origination operations. We cannot assure you, however, that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts in other parts of our operations. If we experience a significant number of such fraudulent or negligent acts, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. 36 Table of Contents Defective loans may harm our business. In connection with the sale and securitization of our loans, we are required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding our company and the loans. We are subject to these representations and warranties for the life of the loan and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws; • regulations and underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, impact our ability to obtain third party financing, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect a non-compliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such losses, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. We believe that we have qualified personnel at all levels and have established controls to ensure that all loans are originated to the market’s requirements, but we cannot assure you that we will not make mistakes, or that certain employees will not deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize losses from defective loans by correcting flaws if possible and selling or re-selling such loans. We also create allowances to provide for defective loans in our financial statements. We cannot assure you; however, that losses associated with defective loans will not harm our results of operations or financial condition. If the prepayment rates for our mortgage loans are different than expected, our results of operations may be significantly harmed. When a borrower pays off a mortgage loan prior to the loan’s scheduled maturity, the impact on us depends upon when such payoff or “prepayment” occurs. Our prepayment losses generally occur after we sell or securitize our loans and the extent of our losses depends on when the prepayment occurs. If the prepayment occurs: • within 12 to 18 months following a whole loan sale, we may have to reimburse the purchaser for all or a portion of the premium paid by the purchaser for the loan, again resulting in a loss of our profit on the loan; or • after we have securitized the loan or sold the loan in a sale, we lose the future income from that loan. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans vary from time to time and tend to increase during periods of declining interest rates. Of the securitized loans we serviced during the year ended December 31, 2005, 30.0% were prepaid. We seek to minimize our prepayment risk through a variety of means, including originating a significant portion of loans with prepayment penalties with terms of two to five years. No strategy, however, can completely insulate us from prepayment risks, whether arising from the effects of interest rate changes or otherwise. See “Statutory and Regulatory Risks” below for a discussion of statutes related to prepayment penalties. We are exposed to environmental liabilities, with respect to properties that we take title to upon foreclosure, that could increase our costs of doing business and harm our results of operations. In the course of our servicing activities, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties and become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. Moreover, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be 37 Table of Contents subject to common law claims by third parties based upon damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be significantly harmed. Statutory and Regulatory Risks The scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we originate mortgage loans in all 50 states, in the District of Columbia and Canada, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal and international laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict non-prime loan origination activities in those cities and counties. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, to accurately interpret and to properly program our technology systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. For example, certain provisions of Illinois law, known as the Illinois Interest Act, limit the charging of certain fees on mortgage loans with interest rates that exceed a specified threshold. On March 31, 2004, an Illinois appellate court held, in U.S. Bank, National Association, et al., v. Clark, et al., that the Illinois Interest Act was not preempted by federal law. Before this decision, prior case law and published positions of the Illinois Attorney General and the Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate supported federal preemption of the Illinois Interest Act with respect to first priority mortgage loans. In reliance on that prior authority, some of the first priority mortgage loans we made in Illinois prior to the Clark decision had fees which may have exceeded the limit of the Illinois Interest Act. Damages for violation of the Illinois Interest Act include actual economic damage and an amount equal to twice the total of all interest, discount and charges determined by the loan contract or paid by the obligor, whichever is greater. The Clark decision is currently on appeal to the Supreme Court of Illinois. If the Clark decision is not reversed on appeal, or if legislation overriding the holding of the Clark decision is not enacted, we could be materially and adversely affected by the potential liability from mortgage loans we made prior to the Clark decision which may be found to have been in violation of the Illinois Interest Act. In addition, recently enacted and changed laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainties for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations due, in many cases, to their lack of specificity. As their applications evolve over time and new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, we may incur higher costs of compliance resulting from ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Our failure to comply with these laws can lead to: • civil and criminal liability; • loss of approved status; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. 38 Table of Contents Stockholder refusal to comply with regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do business in certain states. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements on our officers and directors and persons holding certain amounts, usually 10% or more, of our common stock. If any person holding such an amount of our stock fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our authority to conduct business in that state. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. The mortgage brokers from whom we obtain loans are subject to legal obligations which are parallel to, but separate from, the legal obligations that we are subject to as a lender. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, federal and state agencies have increasingly sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender in which the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. Also, the United States Justice Department in the past has sought to hold a non-prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage brokers. We are no longer able to rely on the Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act to preempt certain state law restrictions on prepayment penalties, and we may be unable to compete effectively with financial institutions that are exempt from such restrictions. The value of a mortgage loan depends, in part, upon the expected period of time that the mortgage loan will be outstanding. If a borrower pays off a mortgage loan in advance of this expected period, the holder of the mortgage loan does not realize the full value expected to be received from the loan. However, a prepayment penalty payable by a borrower who repays a loan earlier than expected helps offset the reduction in value resulting from the early payoff. Consequently, the value of a mortgage loan is enhanced to the extent the loan includes a prepayment penalty, and a mortgage lender can offer a lower interest rate and/or lower loan fees on a loan which has a prepayment penalty. Prepayment penalties are an important feature to obtain value on the loans we originate. Certain state laws restrict or prohibit prepayment penalties on mortgage loans, and we have relied on the federal Alternative Mortgage Transactions Parity Act (the “Parity Act”) and related rules issued in the past by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) to preempt state limitations on prepayment penalties. The Parity Act was enacted to extend to financial institutions, other than federally chartered depository institutions, the federal preemption which federally chartered depository institutions enjoy. However, on September 25, 2002, the OTS released a new rule that reduced the scope of the Parity Act preemption as of July 1, 2003, preventing us from relying on the Parity Act to preempt state restrictions on prepayment penalties. The elimination of this federal preemption requires us to comply with state restrictions on prepayment penalties. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to financial institutions that will continue to enjoy federal preemption of such state restrictions because such institutions will be able to charge prepayment penalties without regard to state restrictions and thereby may be able to offer loans with interest rate and loan fee structures that are more attractive than we are able to offer. 39 Table of Contents The increasing number of federal, state and local “anti-predatory lending” laws may restrict our ability to originate, or increase our risk of liability with respect to, certain mortgage loans and could increase our cost of doing business. In recent years, several federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, that are intended to eliminate so-called “predatory” lending practices. These laws, rules and regulations impose certain restrictions on loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate (“APR”) exceeds specified thresholds, commonly referred to as “high cost” loans. Some of these restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten. In addition, an increasing number of these laws, rules and regulations seek to impose liability for violations on purchasers of loans, regardless of whether a purchaser knew of or participated in the violation. We have generally avoided and will continue to avoid originating “high cost” loans because the rating agencies generally will not rate securities backed by such loans, and the companies that buy our loans and/or provide financing for our loan origination operations generally do not want to buy or finance such loans. The continued enactment or adoption of these laws, rules and regulations may prevent us from making certain loans that we would otherwise make, may cause us to cease operations in certain jurisdictions altogether and may cause us to reduce the APR or the points and fees on loans that we do make. In addition, the difficulty of managing the risks presented by these laws, rules and regulations may decrease the availability of warehouse financing and the overall demand for non-prime loans, making it difficult to fund, sell or securitize any of our loans. If we decide to relax our restrictions on loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with such laws, rules and regulations, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from our lenders and loan purchasers, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. If nothing else, the growing number of these laws, rules and regulations will increase our cost of doing business, as we are required to develop systems and procedures to ensure that we do not violate any aspect of these new requirements. Any of the foregoing could significantly harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our guarantee of the Series A preferred shares of the REIT is senior to claims of our common stockholders. Our guarantee of dividend and principal payments on the Series A preferred shares of the REIT is subordinate to all of our existing and future indebtedness but is senior to our common stock. As a result, upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding, the holders of the Series A preferred shares will be entitled to be paid in full under the guarantee before any payment may be made to holders of our common stock. We are a holding company and our assets consist primarily of investments in our subsidiaries. Substantially all of our consolidated liabilities have been incurred by our subsidiaries. Therefore, our right to participate in the distribution of assets of any subsidiary upon the latter’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors, except to the extent that we may be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary, in which case our claims would still be subject to the prior claims of any secured creditor of such subsidiary and of any holder of indebtedness of such subsidiary that is senior to that held by us. If the REIT fails to maintain its status as a real estate investment trust, the REIT will be subject to federal and state income tax on taxable income at regular corporate rates, and the value of our common stock may be adversely impacted as a result. The REIT was organized to qualify for taxation as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). The REIT has conducted, and intends to continue to conduct, its 40 Table of Contents operations so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements, some on an annual and some on a quarterly basis, established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the REIT’s control. For instance, in order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, no more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of the REIT may be beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) (the “Ownership Test”). Furthermore, each year the REIT must distribute to its shareholders at least 90% of the REIT’s taxable income (the “Annual Distribution Requirements”). We cannot assure you that the REIT will at all times satisfy these rules and tests. If the REIT were to fail to timely meet the Annual Distribution Requirements, satisfy the Ownership Test or otherwise qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable year, the REIT would be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the REIT would also be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification is lost. This treatment would reduce the REIT’s net earnings and cash flow available for distribution to shareholders, including to us as holder of the REIT’s common shares, because of its additional tax liability for the years involved. Additionally, distributions to shareholders would no longer be required to be made by the REIT. Accordingly, the REIT’s failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and the value of the common stock held by our stockholders. Moreover, in order to satisfy the Ownership Test, the REIT’s Declaration of Trust establishes certain ownership restrictions on its shares of beneficial interest. For example, no individual (as described above) may beneficially own more than 9.8% of the value of the REIT. Even with this restriction, depending on the concentration of ownership of our stock and the relative value in the REIT’s common and preferred shares, it is possible that our ownership of the REIT’s common shares would cause the REIT to fail to satisfy the Ownership Test. In such a situation, the Declaration of Trust would require that the number of the REIT common shares held by us which causes the REIT to fail to satisfy the Ownership Test be transferred to a charitable trust at a price no greater than the fair market value of the REIT common shares as of such date, and we would have no future beneficial interest in such REIT common shares (including the right to vote or receive dividends on such REIT common shares). The market price of our common stock could be volatile. The market price for our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a number of factors, including: • the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering; • changes in interest rates; • competitive developments, including announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates and forecasts published by securities analysts; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perceptions of our company and the mortgage industry generally (including the non-prime and nonconforming mortgage industry); and • general economic and other national conditions. 41 Table of Contents Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts, which may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares possibly at a premium over the then market price. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes. At each annual meeting of stockholders, the terms of approximately one-third of the directors will expire, and new directors will be elected to serve for three years. The term of the first class expires at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, the term of the second class expires in 2008, and the term of the third class expires in 2006. Thus, it will take at least two annual meetings to effect a change in control of our board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting, which may delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire or effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would be favorable to our stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are presently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock in the future could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire or effect a change in control, even if such a change in control would be favorable to our stockholders. Our bylaws contain provisions that require stockholders to act only at a duly-called meeting and make it difficult for any person other than management to introduce business at a duly-called meeting by requiring such other person to follow certain notice procedures. Finally, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such things would be in the best interests of our stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 