ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision in our securities. These risk factors are effective as of the date of this Form 10-K and shall be deemed to be modified or superseded to the extent that a statement contained in our future filings modifies or replaces such statement. All of these risks may impair our business operations. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K involve risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the results we discuss in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We require additional financing to operate beyond June 2012, in order to continue growing our oral care probiotics business, as well as complete the development of and to commercialize our LPT3-04 Weight Loss, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates and we do not know if additional financing will be available to us when and if needed, or, if available, on terms that we find acceptable, particularly given the current and potential future strain in the financial and credit markets. We do not have sufficient capital to sustain our operations beyond June 2012 and we are seeking financing. Our operations have required substantial capital funding since inception and we expect to continue to need substantial amounts to grow ProBiora3 sales, and to develop and commercialize our LPT3-04 Weight Loss, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates. We require additional funding and may be unable to raise capital on attractive terms, which would force us to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Changing circumstances may cause us to use capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may incur higher expenses than currently expected because of circumstances beyond our control. If we are not able to raise additional capital and we are not generating positive cash flow from our ProBiora3 products and are unable to commercialize our product candidates, we may be unable to pursue further development of our product candidates, be forced to divest our product candidates prior to maximizing their potential value, be unable to maintain the licenses for our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates, or be forced to significantly scale back or cease our operations. On January 23, 2012, we amended the outstanding unsecured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with the Koski Family Limited partnership, or KFLP, to add an additional $750,000 of available borrowings, which we immediately borrowed. With the $750,000 of additional debt, our principal indebtedness under the Credit Facility was $8.25 million. On March 23, 2012, we entered into an Exchange of Notes for Equity Agreement (the “Debt Exchange Agreement”) with the KFLP. Pursuant to the terms of the Debt Exchange Agreement, we issued 6,285,619 shares of common stock and warrants to acquire 1,571,405 shares of common stock to the KFLP in exchange for the cancellation of an aggregate of $8,737,011 of indebtedness owed to the KFLP under our existing unsecured revolving Credit Facility with the KFLP. The outstanding indebtedness, consisted of $8,250,000 in principal owed on twelve separate promissory notes previously issued by the Company to the KFLP under the Credit Facility and accrued interest through March 23, 2012 (the closing date) of $487,011. The Credit Facility was terminated and the previously issued promissory notes thereunder were cancelled. The warrants are exercisable immediately at a price per share of $2.00 and expire three (3) years from the date of issuance. On March 23, 2012, we also entered into a new loan agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with the KFLP. It provides us with up to $2.5 million in secured funding in two advances of $1,250,000 each with the first advance occurring on March 23, 2012 and the second advance able to be made within 30 days thereafter, subject to the continued accuracy of representations and warranties made by us and that no material adverse events have occurred in connection with our business. Borrowings under the Loan Agreement mature in three years and bear interest at the rate of 5.0% and are secured by select assets of ours relating to or connected with the ProBiora3, SMaRT Replacement Therapy, MU1140 and LPT3-04 technologies. The loan amount is subject to automatic conversion upon a subsequent qualified equity financing by us of $5,000,000 (excluding any converted debt amount). Pursuant to the Loan Agreement we also issued a warrant to the KFLP to acquire 599,520 shares of the Company common stock. The warrants are exercisable immediately at a price per share of $2.00 and expire three (3) years from the date of issuance. While we believe funding from the Loan Agreement will be sufficient to sustain our operations through June 2012, we have no other committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available to us when and if needed, or, if available, that the terms will be acceptable to us, particularly if the financial and credit markets continue to be constrained. 23 Table of Contents We may seek additional financing through public or private equity offerings or through arrangements with strategic third parties. If we raise additional financing by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. For example, as of March 23, 2012 we had borrowed $8,250,000 under the Credit Facility and we exchanged such amount plus accrued interest of $487,011 for the issuance of 6,285,619 shares of our common stock to the KFLP at the same time we entered into the new Loan Agreement with the KFLP. While such exchange caused dilution to our existing holders, we no longer owe any amounts under the Credit Facility. We also issued to the KFLP warrants on March 23, 2012 to purchase an aggregate of 2,170,925 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share on March 23, 2012 which if exercised would cause additional dilution. In addition, as a condition to providing additional financing to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional financing through arrangements with strategic third parties, we may be required to relinquish rights to or sell certain of our product candidates or products that we would not otherwise relinquish or sell. We may also seek additional financing through long-term debt and lines of credit or through the issuance of debt securities. If we raise additional financing through borrowing or the issuance of debt securities, our debt service obligations may be significant. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these debt service obligations, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate assets in order to fund these obligations and to repay our debt, which could force us to delay or terminate our research, development and commercialization efforts. We are dependent upon our Loan Agreement with our largest shareholder, the KFLP, for funding. In January 2012, we borrowed the remaining $750,000 under our Credit Facility with the KFLP and as of March 23, 2012 our total borrowings under the Credit Facility of $8,250,000 along with accrued interest of $487,011 were exchanged into 6,285,619 shares of common stock issued to the KFLP. While we no longer owe any amounts to the KFLP under the Credit Facility and the Credit Facility is no longer available as of March 23, 2012, we have borrowed an additional $1,250,000 under our new Loan Agreement with the KFLP and have the ability to receive another advance of $1,250,000 within 30 days of the Loan Agreement. However, we have no other committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available to us when and if needed, or, if available, that the terms will be acceptable to us, particularly if the financial and credit markets continue to be constrained. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash or raise sufficient capital to repay our secured indebtedness and if we are unable to repay our secured indebtedness, we could lose our intellectual property rights in our ProBiora3, SMaRT Replacement Therapy, MU1140 and LPT3-04 technologies which are material assets of the Company. Our Loan Agreement with the KFLP matures in three years and select material assets of the Company relating to or connected with our ProBiora3, SMaRT Replacement Therapy, MU1140 and LPT3-04 technologies have been pledged as collateral to secure our borrowings under the Loan Agreement. This secured indebtedness could impede us from raising the additional equity or debt capital we need to continue our operations even though the amount borrowed under the Loan Agreement automatically converts into equity upon a qualified equity financing of at least $5 million. Our ability to repay the loan will depend largely upon our future operating performance and we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that we will be able to raise the additional capital necessary to repay the loan. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to raise the funds necessary to repay the loan when it becomes due, the KFLP could institute foreclosure proceedings against our material intellectual property assets and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation which could in turn significantly diminish the value of your common stock. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and expect to continue to experience losses for the foreseeable future. Since our inception, we have incurred operating losses and negative cash flow from operating activities. To achieve and maintain profitability, we must successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, market and sell, or license, partner or sell the rights to, one or more of the product candidates we either license or own. Furthermore, our cash burn rate and expenses have increased significantly due to our commercialization initiatives with our ProBiora3 products. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing capabilities for our ProBiora3 products and continue our preclinical testing, clinical trials and research and development activities. Net losses have totaled $7,678,868 and $7,805,165 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have experienced losses from operations during the last two years and have an accumulated deficit of $40,995,916 as of December 31, 2011. We have used cash in our operating activities of $5,494,758 and $6,448,434 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our accounts payable and accrued expenses have also increased due to operational changes instituted in 24 Table of Contents connection with the launch of our consumer products, costs incurred for patents, and for accrued interest relating to the borrowings under our credit facility with a related party in 2011. We have a working capital deficit of $8,328,004 (a deficit of $8,592,964 when the current cash reserved for DPOLT research is excluded), and $127,518 ($603,175, when the current cash reserved for DPOLT research is excluded) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our auditor has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In light of our recurring losses, accumulated deficit and negative cash flow, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to establish to the satisfaction of our independent registered public accounting firm that the net proceeds from our financing efforts will be sufficient to allow for the removal of this going concern qualification, we may need to significantly modify our operational plans for us to continue as a going concern. Our success will also depend on our ability to significantly increase sales of our ProBiora3 products which is currently our only source of product revenue and has not generated substantial revenues to date. Currently our sole source of product revenues is from sales of our ProBiora3 products, which began in late 2008 and have generated only modest revenues to date. Net sales of our ProbBiora3 products were $1,229,510 and $1,128,895 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. If we are unable to generate significant revenues from our ProBiora3 products our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to partner or sub-license our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates and their subsequent successful commercialization. Our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates are both in early stage development and will require partners with deep financial resources to continue the development of each of these products to commercialization. In addition, none of these product candidates have received regulatory approval in any jurisdiction and they may never receive approval or, if approvals are obtained, may never be commercialized successfully. We are currently conducting a second Phase 1 clinical trial to examine the safety and genetic stability of an attenuated version of the SMaRT strain in humans. Currently our clinical trials for our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate will be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether any of our clinical trials will be successful or can be completed within our current expected budget. For our MU1140-S product candidate, we have performed extensive preclinical testing using native MU1140 and expect to pursue the preclinical testing of MU1140-S, including in vitro and animal models, during 2012. Even if we are able to partner and conduct successful clinical trials or the required regulatory approvals are obtained, we may never be able to generate significant revenues from our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates. If our SMaRT Replacement Therapy or MU1140-S product candidates are unsuccessful, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we may not be able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a modest shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Individual products represent meaningful portions of our revenues in any quarter. We may incur significant or unanticipated expenses associated with our research and development efforts of our product candidates under development. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the timing of release of new products and services by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in any given period; • the popularity of new products, and products released in prior periods; • changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; 25 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer and retailer demand for our ProBiora3 products; • our success in entering new geographic markets; • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development; • the level of expenses associated with our clinical trials; • accounting rules governing recognition of revenues; • the amount we reserve against returns and allowances; and • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants. As a result of these and other factors, our quarterly and annual operating results could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, our operating results may not meet announced guidance or the expectations of research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Current and future economic and market conditions could materially adversely affect our revenues, expense levels and profitability. The U.S. economy and the global economy are recovering from a severe recession. Factors such as uncertainties in consumer spending, a sustained regional and/or global economic downturn or slow recovery may reduce the demand for our ProBiora3 products. Furthermore, challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for our commercial products. Because consumer spending for our ProBiora3 products can generally be considered a discretionary purchase, we may experience a more negative impact on our business due to these conditions than other companies that do not depend on discretionary spending. If demand for our ProBiora3 products declines or our customers are otherwise unable to pay for our products, we may be required to offer extensive discounts or spend more on marketing than budgeted and our revenues, expense levels, and profitability will be materially adversely affected. . We are subject to government regulation of the processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our consumer products. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, companies that manufacture and distribute foods, such as our ProBiora3 products, are limited in the claims that they are permitted to make about nutritional support on the product label without FDA approval. Any failure by us to adhere to the labeling requirements could lead to the FDA’s requiring that our products be repackaged and relabeled, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, companies are responsible for the accuracy and truthfulness of, and must have substantiation for, any such statements. These claims must be truthful and not misleading. Statements must not claim to diagnose, mitigate, treat, cure or prevent a specific disease or class of disease. We are able to market our ProBiora3 products in reliance on the self-affirmed Generally Recognized As Safe, or GRAS, status of our active ingredient, ProBiora3. No governmental agency or other third party has made a determination as to whether or not ProBiora3 has achieved GRAS status. We make this determination based on independent scientific opinions that ProBiora3 is not harmful under its intended conditions of use. If the FDA, another regulatory authority or other third party denied our self-affirmed GRAS status for ProBiora3, we could face significant penalties or be required to undergo the regulatory approval process in order to market our probiotic products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot guarantee that in such a situation ProBiora3 would be approved. The FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMPs, describe the methods, equipment, facilities, and controls for producing processed food and set the minimum sanitary and processing requirements for producing safe and wholesome food. Those who manufacture, package, or hold human food must comply with the GMPs. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the GMPs, the FDA may take enforcement action against us or our suppliers. The processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our probiotic products are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency. Our activities are also subject to regulation by various agencies of the states and localities in which our probiotic products are sold. Any changes in the current regulatory environment could impose requirements that would limit our ability to market our probiotic products and make bringing new products to market more expensive. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product 26 Table of Contents sales and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While our ProBiora3 products are categorized as foods, it is possible that the FDA or a state regulatory agency could classify these products as a cosmetic or a drug. If the products are classified as cosmetics rather than a food, we would be limited to making claims that the products cleanse and beautify, but we could not make structure or function claims. If our probiotic products are classified as drugs, we would not be able to market the ProBoira3 products without going through the drug approval process. Either of these events would limit our ability to effectively market our products and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the FDA or a state regulatory agency viewed the products as cosmetics or drugs, they could claim that the products are misbranded and require that we repackage and relabel the products and impose civil and/or criminal penalties. Either or both of these situations could adversely affect our business and operations. If we undertake product recalls or incur liability claims with respect to our ProBiora3 products, such recalls or claims could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income. Our ProBiora3 products are designed for human and animal consumption and we may face product recalls or liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or death. ProBiora3 is classified as a food ingredient and is not subject to pre-market regulatory approval in the United States. Our ProBiora3 products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human or animal consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from consumption of these ingredients could occur. We may have to undertake various product recalls or be subject to liability claims, including, among others, that our ProBiora3 products include inadequate instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects and interactions with other substances. A product recall or liability claim against us could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability insurance is expensive, is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and may not be available in the future. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. In addition, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in a sufficient amount, that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim or that a product liability claim would not otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of any product liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of product liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability litigation and other related proceedings may also require significant management attention. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements with the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., under which we license our rights to SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140, our licenses to these product candidates may be terminated and we will be unable to commercialize these products candidates. We hold our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140 product candidates under licenses from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., or UFRF. Under the terms of the licenses, we must spend at least $1,000,000 per year on development of those product candidates until the first commercial sale of products derived from those product candidates has occurred. In addition, we must pay $25,000 per quarter as minimum royalties to the UFRF under our license agreements. The UFRF may terminate our licenses to SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140 if we breach our obligations to timely pay these amounts, to submit development reports as required under the license agreements or commit any other breach of any other covenants contained in the license agreements. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with these conditions in a timely manner or at all. If our license agreements are terminated, we will be unable to commercialize these product candidates. Until commercial sale of any products developed from these licensed product candidates takes place, we will not earn any revenues from these product candidates and will, therefore, need additional financing to fund our required royalty payments and development expenses, such as through the commercialization and sale of our ProBiora3 products, the sale of our debt or equity securities, or otherwise. There can be no assurance that we will achieve sufficient sales of our ProBiora3 products or be able to raise the capital necessary to meet our obligations under our licenses. If we are unable to meet our obligations under these licenses, we may lose the licenses to these product candidates and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We depend on third-party manufacturers for our ProBiora3 products. The loss of any manufacturer or any interruptions in the supply of our ProBiora3 products, would have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. We currently have no manufacturing facilities and are dependent upon establishing relationships with independent manufacturers to supply our product needs. We have contracted with multiple GMP-certified manufacturers to produce our 27 Table of Contents active ingredient, ProBiora3, under GMPs. We believe our arrangements with our contract manufacturers have the capacity to meet our current and expected future manufacturing needs. Although we have qualified and used at least two contract manufacturers for each step in our manufacturing process, we do not have a long-term supply agreement or commitment with any of our manufacturers. If our manufacturers are unable or unwilling to produce our ProBiora products in sufficient quantities, or at all, at acceptable pricing in accordance with specifications we establish from time to time we would need to find alternative manufacturers that are qualified. If, in such instances, we are unsuccessful in obtaining alternative manufacturers, it could impair our ability to sell our ProBiora3 products and would have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. In addition, competitors who own their manufacturing facilities may have an advantage over us with respect to pricing, availability of product and in other areas through their control of the manufacturing process. The risks associated with the numerous factors that could cause interruptions in the supply of our products, including manufacturing capacity limitations, regulatory inspections, changes in our sources for manufacturing, disputes with a manufacturer, our failure to timely locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed and conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials, are magnified when the suppliers are limited in number. Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to timely distribute our products and satisfy customer demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate product supplies to satisfy our customers’ orders, we may lose those orders, our customers may cancel other orders, and they may choose instead to stock and purchase competing products. This could result in a loss of our market share and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. If our manufacturers in general fail to meet our requirements and the requirements of regulatory authorities, our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We do not have the internal capability to manufacture our ProBiora3 products or our LPT3-04 Weight Loss, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates under GMPs, as required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. In order to continue to develop our product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals for our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates, and commercialize our ProBiora3 and LPT3-04 products and other product candidates, we will need to contract with third parties that have, or otherwise develop, the necessary manufacturing capabilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under GMPs that are capable of manufacturing our ProBiora3 products and SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate. Furthermore, manufacturing MU1140-S on a commercial scale has not yet been achieved, so there are additional technical skills needed for the manufacture of MU1140-S that will further limit the number of potential manufacturers. As such, if we are unable to enter into supply and processing contracts with any of these manufacturers or processors for our ProBiora3 products or our development stage product candidates, such as LPT3-04, we may incur additional costs and delays in development and commercialization. Problems with these manufacturing processes such as equipment malfunctions, facility contamination, labor problems, raw material shortages or contamination, natural disasters, power outages, terrorist activities, or disruptions in the operations of our suppliers and even minor deviations from normal procedures, could result in product defects or manufacturing failures that result in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims and insufficient inventory. If we are required to find an additional or alternative source of supply, there may be additional costs and delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory agencies routinely inspect manufacturing facilities before approving a New Drug Application, or NDA, or Biologic License Application, or BLA, for a drug or biologic manufactured at those sites. If any of our manufacturers or processors fails to satisfy regulatory requirements, the approval and eventual commercialization of our commercial products and product candidates may be delayed. All of our contract manufacturers must comply with the applicable GMPs, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. If our contract manufacturers do not comply with the applicable GMPs and other FDA regulatory requirements, we may be subject to product liability claims, the availability of marketed products for sale could be reduced, our product commercialization could be delayed or subject to restrictions, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and may lose potential revenues and we could suffer delays in the progress of preclinical testing and clinical trials for products under development. We do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Moreover, while we may choose to manufacture ProBiora3 products ourselves in the future, we have no experience in the manufacture of pharmaceutical or biological products for clinical trials or commercial purposes. If we decide to manufacture products, we would be subject to the regulatory requirements described above. In addition, we would require substantial additional capital and would be subject to delays or difficulties encountered in manufacturing pharmaceutical or biological products. Regardless of the manufacturer of our products, we will be subject to continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. 28 Table of Contents We may be unable to find a method to produce MU1140-S in large-scale commercial quantities. If we cannot, we will be unable to generate revenues from sales of our MU1140-S product candidate. Our antibiotic product candidate, MU1140-S, is a synthetic form of MU1140 produced by our strain of S. mutans. To date, it has been produced only in laboratory cultures. In March 2005 we successfully developed a methodology for producing MU1140 in quantities sufficient to undertake its preclinical testing. In addition, we developed the DPOLT synthetic chemistry methodology to allow large-scale commercial production of the MU1140-S antibiotic. However, this methodology may not be feasible for cost effective, large scale manufacture. If we are not able to utilize this methodology for large-scale manufacture, we will be unable to partner and generate revenues from this product candidate and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We have recently retained Bachem to refine and scale-up GMP production of MU1140-S. The manufacturing of MU1140-S is a highly exacting and complex process. Manufacturing MU1140-S on a commercial scale has not yet been achieved so there are additional risks. Third-party manufacturers must have additional technical skills and must take multiple steps to attempt to control the manufacturing processes. Our ProBiora3 products and our LPT3-04 Weight Loss, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates face various forms of competition from other products in the marketplace. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by intense competition, rapid product development and technological change. Most of the competition that our ProBiora3 products and our LPT3-04 Weight Loss, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates face comes from companies that are large, well established and have greater financial, marketing, sales and technological resources than we have. Our ProBiora3 products compete with a range of consumer and nutraceutical products. Our commercial success with the LPT3-04 Weight Loss Agent, SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S will depend on our ability and the ability of any sub-licensees to compete effectively in marketing and product development areas including, but not limited to, sales and branding, drug safety, efficacy, ease of use, patient or customer compliance, price, marketing and distribution. There can be no assurance that competitors will not succeed in developing and marketing products that are more desirable or effective than our ProBiora3 products or the products developed from our product candidates or that would render our products obsolete and non-competitive. We anticipate that our SMaRT Replacement Therapy, if approved for the treatment of tooth decay, would compete with other companies attempting to develop technologies in the oral health care market, including vaccines. We rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and scientific team and we have incurred significant turnover in key positions in the last six months. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and scientific team, who have extensive experience and specialized expertise in our business. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our other key employees. In May 2011, we hired Dr. John Bonfiglio as Chief Executive Officer and in February 2012, we hired Mr. Michael Sullivan, CPA as our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of these key employees could harm our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have no key man life insurance policies. We have employment agreements with Dr Bonfiglio and Mr. Sullivan. The term of each of these employment agreements is for an indefinite period and will end when the employment relationship is terminated by either party for any or no reason. We need to hire and retain additional qualified scientists and other highly skilled personnel to maintain and grow our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial and research personnel in all areas within our organization. We plan to continue to grow our business and will need to hire additional personnel to support this growth. We believe that there are only a limited number of individuals with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and we compete for key personnel with other biotechnology and nutraceutical companies, as well as universities and research institutions. It is often difficult to hire and retain these persons, and we may be unable to replace key persons if they leave or be unable to fill new positions requiring key persons with appropriate experience. If we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, our ability to maintain and grow our business could suffer significantly. 29 Table of Contents If our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates are shown to be ineffective or harmful in humans, we will be unable to generate revenues from these product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our SMaRT Replacement Therapy or MU1140-S product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for use in humans. To date, the testing of our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate has been undertaken solely in animals and a limited number of humans. Studies have proven our genetically altered strain of S. mutans to be effective in preventing tooth decay in animals. It is possible that our strain of S. mutans will be shown to be less effective in preventing tooth decay in humans in clinical trials. If our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate is shown to be ineffective in preventing tooth decay in humans, we will be unable to commercialize and generate revenues from this product candidate. To date the testing of the antibiotic substance, MU1140, has been undertaken solely in the laboratory and in animals. We have not yet conducted human studies of MU1140-S. It is possible that when these studies are conducted, they will show that MU1140-S is ineffective or harmful in humans. If MU1140-S is shown to be ineffective or harmful in humans, we will be unable to commercialize and generate revenues from sales of this compound. If we are unable to generate revenues from our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We intend to rely on third parties to pay the majority of the costs associated with obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing of, our MU1140-S and SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidates. If we are unable to obtain agreements with third parties to fund these costs, we will have to fund such costs ourselves or we may be unable to continue our operations. As we continue our MU1140-S and SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidates, we intend to either license these product candidates to, or partner with, one or more major pharmaceutical companies the earliest possible time in their product development. If we do so, we intend for these licensees or partners to pay the costs associated with any remaining development work, regulatory submissions, clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates. If we are unable to license our product candidates or otherwise partner with third parties, we will have to fund the costs of our clinical trials ourselves. We will also have to establish our own manufacturing facilities and find our own distribution channels. This would greatly increase our future capital requirements and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain the necessary financing to pay these costs or that we will be generating significant revenues from any of our products, such as ProBiora3, sufficient to cover the associated costs. If we do not generate sufficient revenues to cover the associated costs or we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks. These collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Agreements with collaborative partners typically allow partners significant discretion in electing whether or not to pursue any of the planned activities. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners may devote to products based on the collaboration, and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Our partners may not perform their obligations as expected. Business combinations or significant changes in a collaborative partner’s business strategy may adversely affect a partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under the arrangement. Moreover, we could become involved in disputes with our partners, which could lead to delays or termination of the collaborations and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Even if we fulfill our obligations under a collaborative agreement, our partner may be able to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. If any collaborative partner were to terminate or breach our agreement with it, or otherwise fail to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our chances of successfully commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally as we attempt to expand our sales through international distributor relationships. We have entered into a number of international distributor agreements for our ProBiora3 products. As a result, we expect to increase our revenues from international sales. A number of factors can slow or prevent international sales, or substantially increase the cost of international sales, and we may encounter certain risks of doing business internationally including the following: • reduced protection and enforcement for our intellectual property rights; • unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to sell our products and repatriate funds to the United States; 30 Table of Contents • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • difficulties in developing and maintaining distributor relationships in foreign countries; • difficulties in negotiating acceptable contractual terms and enforcing contractual obligations; • exposure to liabilities under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; • creditworthiness of foreign distributors, customer uncertainty and difficulty in foreign accounts receivable collection; and • the burden of complying with foreign laws. As we attempt to expand our sales internationally, our exposure to these risks could result in our inability to attain the anticipated benefits and our business could be adversely impacted. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. If our intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products or product candidates, or if third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, others could compete against us more directly or we could be subject to significant litigation. Such results could prevent us from marketing our products or product candidates and hurt our profitability. Our product portfolio is protected by ten issued U.S. patents and twelve filed U.S. patent applications, including patents exclusively licensed from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., or the UFRF. We are the exclusive worldwide licensee to the patents for SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140, which are owned by the UFRF. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks and licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide adequate protection against competitors. In addition, any future patent applications may fail to result in patents being issued. Also, those patents that are issued may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar product candidates. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents and trademarks, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection of these rights, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary rights could seriously impair our competitive position. In the event of an infringement or violation, we may face litigation and may be prevented from pursuing product development or commercialization. We may receive in the future, notice of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. Infringement or other claims could be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future and it is possible that past or future assertions or prosecutions could harm our business. The FDA instituted numerous clinical holds with respect to our Phase 1 clinical trial program for our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate. Although the clinical holds were lifted with respect to the attenuated version of the SMaRT strain, a clinical hold remains in effect for our IND for the non-attenuated SMaRT strain. If the FDA does not lift the clinical hold on this IND, we will be unable to conduct the clinical trials necessary to obtain marketing approval of our product candidate. The FDA’s concerns that resulted in these clinical holds may lead to the imposition of a new clinical hold or holds or the failure of our product candidates to obtain marketing approval. 31 Table of Contents In December 1998, the FDA imposed a clinical hold on the IND for our SMaRT strain. The FDA expressed concerns about the potential for DNA transfer into or from the SMaRT strain; the possible creation of an organism with increased ability to colonize and produce dental caries; and the potential for the transfer of the strain between humans. We met with the FDA to discuss proposed trials of an attenuated SMaRT strain to address the FDA’s concerns, and the FDA informed us that such trials required a separate IND. We submitted an IND for the attenuated strain in March 2003. The FDA then imposed multiple clinical holds with respect to the Phase 1 clinical trials of the attenuated strain. Specifically, we received clinical hold letters in May 2003, February 2004, June 2007 and August 2007. In connection with the clinical hold letter in May 2003, the FDA requested that we provide preclinical data on eradication of the attenuated version of the SMaRT strain once it had been implanted and a plan for the eradication of the attenuated strain in the trial subjects and their spouse or partners. In an April 2004 meeting, the FDA suggested that we conduct two eradication trials: one in subjects without teeth, and, if successful, another trial in subjects with teeth. We submitted revised protocols in accordance with FDA’s suggestions, and in November 2004 the FDA lifted the clinical hold for the attenuated strain. We initiated our first Phase 1 clinical trial in April 2005, but we found it difficult to find subjects who fit the FDA’s highly cautious inclusion and exclusion criteria, particularly with respect to the subjects’ lack of dentition. We concluded this trial early after enrolling only two of the 15 planned subjects. The FDA then recommended that we revise the protocol for the evaluation of ten healthy male subjects, ranging from 18 to 30 years old and with normal dentition, in an institutionalized setting. After we submitted additional information, the FDA issued another clinical hold letter in June 2007 for the proposed trial with the attenuated strain, citing the need for a plan with respect to serious adverse effects; a plan for the eradication of the attenuated strain in trial subjects’ offspring; and a required pregnancy test for female partners of subjects. We submitted additional protocols in response to the FDA’s concerns. In August 2007, the FDA issued another clinical hold letter with required revisions to the protocol for offspring of subjects. We submitted a response to the clinical hold letter in September 2007, and the FDA removed the clinical hold for our Phase 1 trial in the attenuated strain in October 2007. We plan to discuss with the FDA whether the clinical hold for the non-attenuated SMaRT strain can be lifted after the completion of our second Phase 1 clinical trial using the attenuated strain, because we believe the results from the trial may address the FDA’s concerns with the non-attenuated SMaRT strain. However, there is no guarantee that our clinical trials for the attenuated strain will be successful, or that the FDA will ever lift the clinical hold on the non-attenuated SMaRT strain. If the FDA does not lift the clinical hold on the non-attenuated SMaRT strain, we or a partner cannot commence our anticipated third Phase 1 trial and we may not be able to conduct the clinical trials necessary to obtain marketing approval of the SMaRT strain. The FDA may impose additional requirements that may significantly increase the time and expense of obtaining FDA approval. Although the FDA has removed the clinical holds with respect to our Phase 1 trials for the attenuated strain, if the FDA has further concerns regarding the safety or risks associated with our trials, the FDA could implement another clinical hold on our ongoing trial or future trials or raise concerns as a part of a future NDA review process for our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate, which could delay or prevent marketing. Our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates are subject to substantial government regulation, including the regulation of preclinical testing and clinical trials. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates we will be unable to generate revenues. The production and marketing of products which may be developed from our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates and our ongoing research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities. Most of the product candidates we are developing must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process before they can be marketed in the United States or internationally. The FDA accepted our protocols to conduct Phase 1 human clinical trials of our SMaRT Replacement Therapy product candidate. If we fail to maintain regulatory approval for the clinical trials of our SMaRT Replacement Therapy, if the FDA fails to lift the clinical hold on our IND for the non-attenuated version of the SMaRT strain, or if we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our MU1140-S product candidate, we may have to cease further development. Clinical trials on our SMaRT Replacement Therapy and MU1140-S product candidates are expected to take several years to fully complete. The commencement or completion of preclinical studies or clinical trials can be delayed or prevented for a number of reasons, including: • our belief that SMaRT Replacement Therapy is one of the first genetically modified bacterial strains for use in humans, which may cause the FDA to proceed with additional caution; 32 Table of Contents • difficulties in finding a partner with the resources to support large and expensive clinical development and commercialization costs; • findings in preclinical studies; • difficulties obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial; • delays in reaching or failing to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • insufficient or inadequate supply or quality of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • difficulties obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including the size and nature of patient population, proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the trial, nature of the trial protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant condition and competition from other clinical trial programs for similar indications; • severe or unexpected drug or biologic-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial; and • difficulties retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to rigors of the trial, lack of efficacy, side effects, or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow up. Clinical trials also may be delayed or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRBs at the sites where the IRBs are overseeing a trial, or a data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, overseeing the clinical trial at issue, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • unforeseen safety issues or lack of effectiveness; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. We cannot assure you that clinical trials will demonstrate the safety or effectiveness of our SMaRT Replacement Therapy or MU1140-S product candidates, or will otherwise satisfy regulatory requirements. Our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, there may be inconsistencies between early clinical trial results and results obtained in later clinical trials, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products. If we are unable to resolve the FDA’s concerns, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for these product candidates. The pre-marketing approval process can be particularly expensive, uncertain and lengthy, and a number of products for which FDA or other governmental regulatory approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved for marketing. In addition to testing and approval procedures, extensive regulations also govern marketing, manufacturing, distribution, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. If we do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such violations could result in warning letters, non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals or ongoing clinical trials, civil penalties and criminal fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecution. 33 Table of Contents We may encounter such delays and rejection of our product candidates by the FDA or other regulatory authority may also adversely affect our business. Such delays or rejection may be encountered due to, among other reasons, government or regulatory delays, lack of efficacy during clinical trials, unforeseen safety issues, or changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. More stringent regulatory approval processes in product clearance and enforcement activities could result in our experiencing longer approval cycles, more uncertainty, greater risk, and higher expenses. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval may entail limitations on uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted. It is possible, for example, that we may not receive FDA approval to market products based on our licensed, patented product candidates for different indications or to market updated products that represent extensions of our basic product candidates. In addition, we may not receive FDA approval to export our products based on our licensed, patented product candidates in the future, and countries to which products are to be exported may not approve them for import. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our product candidates. It is possible that the applicable regulatory authority will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our product candidates. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our future product candidates could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for new products based on our product candidates, or to produce, market, and distribute such products if approved. We cannot assure you that the market and consumers will accept our product candidates. If they do not, we will be unable to generate significant revenues from our product candidates and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The commercial success of our ProBiora3, LPT3-04, MU1140-S and SMaRT Replacement Therapy, and other product candidates will depend in part on market acceptance by consumers. Biopharmaceutical companies have received substantial support from the scientific community, regulatory agencies and many governmental officials in the United States and internationally. Future scientific developments, media coverage and political events may diminish such support. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that health products are unsafe for consumption or pose unknown risks to the environment or to traditional social or economic practices. Securing governmental approvals for, and consumer confidence in, such products poses numerous challenges, particularly outside the United States. The market success of product candidates developed by biopharmaceutical companies could be delayed or impaired in certain geographical areas as a result. Products based on our product candidates may compete with a number of traditional dental therapies and drugs manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Market acceptance of products based on our product candidates will depend on a number of factors including potential advantage over alternative treatment methods. We can offer you no assurance that dentists, physicians, patients or the medical and dental communities in general will accept and utilize products developed from our product candidates. If they do not, we may be unable to generate significant revenues from our product candidates and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. If our products do not receive favorable third-party reimbursement, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not generate significant revenues. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our proposed formulations and products and related treatments are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs. Reimbursement from third parties depends greatly on our ability to present data which demonstrate positive outcomes and reduced utilization of other products or services as well as cost data which show that treatment costs using the new product are equal to or less than what is currently covered for other products. If our products do not receive favorable third-party reimbursement and patients are unwilling or unable to pay for our products out-of-pocket, it could limit our revenues and harm our business. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, recent federal and state government initiatives have been directed at lowering the total cost of health care. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Federal and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, controlling the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud which could subject us to regulatory sanctions, harm our business and operating results and cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Effective internal controls required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business, reputation and operating results could be harmed. We have discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken or intend to take will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could subject us to regulatory sanctions, harm our business and operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also harm our reputation and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock KFLP, together with members of the Koski family, have a controlling interest in our outstanding shares of common stock. As of April 4, 2012 the KFLP, together with members of the Koski family, beneficially own approximately 81.5% (which reflects the March 23, 2012 transactions between the KFLP and the Company) of our outstanding shares of common stock, including outstanding warrants to acquire 2,170,925 shares of our common stock that we issued to the KFLP in connection with our Debt Exchange Agreement and Loan Agreement. Christine L. Koski and Robert C. Koski, share voting and investment powers with two other Koski family members as general partners of the KFLP and serve on our Board of Directors. As a result, the Koski family will be able to affect the outcome of, or exert significant influence over, all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders, and, accordingly, the Koski family could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, executive employment agreements and stock option plan may prevent a change of control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, executive employment agreements and stock option plan may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval and that may be substantially dilutive or contain preferences or rights objectionable to an acquiror; • the ability of our Board of Directors to amend the bylaws without shareholder approval; • vacancies on our Board may only be filled by the remaining directors and not our shareholders; • requirements that only our Board, our President or holders of more than 10% of our shares can call a special meeting of shareholders; • obligations to make certain payments under executive employment agreements in the event of a change of control and termination of employment; and • immediate vesting of all stock options. As a result, these provisions could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. However, in our articles of incorporation we expressly elected not 35 Table of Contents to be governed by Sections 607.0901 and 607.0902 of the Florida Business Corporation Act, which are statutory anti-takeover provisions relating to affiliated transactions and control share acquisitions, respectively. As such, we do not have the protection of these statutes in connection with any unwanted takeover attempts which could have the effect of encouraging an attempted change of control without first negotiating with our Board of Directors. Our common stock is not listed on a national U.S. securities exchange and the application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock as well as increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board which generally has significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, not only in the number of shares that can be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage, and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, purchasers of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. In addition, if at any time the trading price of our stock is below $5.00 per share it is subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. Because the “penny stock” rules impose certain requirements on brokers, they may be less willing to execute transactions in our securities. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock, our common stock is more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the market’s perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Our ability to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future, may also be materially and adversely affected by the fact that our securities are not traded on a national securities exchange. Our stock price has historically been volatile and the trading volume of our stock has been low. Since our initial public offering in June 2003 and through April 4, 2012 our stock price has fluctuated from $90.00 to $0.75 per share. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarter-to-quarter variations in our operating results; • our perceived funding needs; • the results of testing, technological innovations, or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • governmental regulations, rules, and orders; • our level of, and expected future use of, working capital; • general conditions in the healthcare, dentistry, or biopharmaceutical industries; • comments, research reports and/or earnings estimates by securities analysts; • developments concerning patents or other intellectual property rights; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of directors, officers and key personnel; • release of transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares of common stock or sales of additional shares of common stock; • potential litigation initiated against us; and • the additional sale of common stock by us in capital raising transactions. 36 Table of Contents Historically, the daily trading volume of our common stock has been relatively low and on some days our stock does not trade at all. We cannot guarantee that an active public market for our common stock will be sustained or that the average trading volume will increase. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the market price for particular companies has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been initiated following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. To the extent our stock price fluctuates or remains low, it could impair our ability to raise capital through the offering of additional equity securities. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like Nasdaq or a stock exchange like Amex. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of their shares. Oragenics shareholders face market liquidity risk The daily trading volume of Oragenics shares is relatively low. An order for the purchase or sale of a large number of Oragenics shares could significantly affect the price at which the order is executed. The issuance of additional equity securities by us in the future could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Any issuance of additional equity securities by us in the future could result in dilution to our existing shareholders. Such issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium to the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complementary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional products or brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could result in further dilution to our existing shareholders. Under our new Loan Agreement, the amounts borrowed are subject to automatic conversion into equity securities upon the successful completion of an offering by the Company raising a minimum of $5.0 million. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of March 31, 2012, there were 12,170,795 shares of our common stock outstanding, with another 2,477,213 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants to investors, 770,173 shares issuable upon exercise of options outstanding and an additional 233,228 shares available for option grants under our 2002 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan (“Stock Incentive Plan”). The issuance of shares of our common stock under our Stock Incentive Plan is covered by Form S-8 registration statements we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and upon exercise of the options, such shares may be resold into the market. We have also issued shares of common stock and warrants in connection with private placements. Such shares are available for resale as well as certain of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. We have also issued shares of our common stock in the private placement and financing transaction which are deemed to be “restricted securities,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and such shares may be resold pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144. The resale of shares acquired from us in private transactions could cause our stock price to decline significantly. In addition, from time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their restricted shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six-month holding period: (i) affiliated shareholders, or shareholders whose shares are aggregated, may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly 37 Table of Contents trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated shareholders may sell without such limitations, in each case provided we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one-year holding period without any limitation or restriction. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. Such stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which would have the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which our shareholders vote, and might dilute the book value of our common stock. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors. As a public company, we are already subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and regulations may increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs; may make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly; and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors and Board committees or as executive officers. As a public company we are also required to assess our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and file periodic reports with the SEC. If we are unable to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, or if material weaknesses or significant deficiencies persist, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or regulatory investigations, which could harm our business. We must perform an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or the SEC reporting requirements in a timely manner, or if we continue to note or identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. As a smaller reporting company, we do not have to have our independent registered public accounting firm report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If in the future we no longer meet the requirements of a smaller reporting company, our independent registered public accounting firm will have to report on our internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 