ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report before making investment decisions concerning the Company’s common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial but may also adversely impact the Company’s business. If any of the events described in the following risk factors occur, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. Risks Relating to Our Bank and the Banking Business Center Financial and the Bank have each entered into MOUs with their respective regulatory agencies and may be subject to future additional regulatory restrictions and enforcement actions if they fail to comply with the MOUs or if their financial condition should further deteriorate. Center Financial and the Bank have each entered into MOUs with their respective regulatory agencies Under the terms of the MOUs, we have agreed to take various actions to facilitate an improvement to our financial condition, including specific actions directed at reducing our nonperforming assets, resolving perceived weaknesses in lending and other banking operations and attaining and maintaining specified, higher than normal, regulatory capital ratios, as further described above under “Informal Regulatory Agreements”. The Company incurred a substantial loss for the 2009 fiscal year, and reflected a substantial increase in the level of nonperforming assets between from year-end 2008 to year-end 2009. While the Company achieved consolidated net income of $22.7 million in 2010 and reduced the level of nonperforming assets considerably, the MOUs will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FRB, the FDIC and the DFI. Although our results of operations in 2010 and financial condition at December 31, 2010 improved over 2009 in virtually all respects, in light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our level of nonperforming and adversely classified assets and our operating results in 2009, we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny as a result of the potential risk of loss in our loan portfolio in the form of the MOUs described above. If we fail to comply with the terms of the MOUs or if our business or financial condition worsens, future corrective actions could require us to limit our lending activities and reduce our levels of certain categories of loans and classified or non-performing assets within specified timeframes, which might prevent us from maximizing the price which might otherwise be received for the underlying properties. In addition, future corrective action, could require us to, among other things, increase our allowance for loan losses, further increase our capital ratios, or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the regulatory agencies have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions if the Bank’s capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of operating losses, or if its regulators otherwise determine that it has insufficient capital or is otherwise operating in an unsafe and unsound manner. The corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, requiring Center Financial or the Bank to enter into formal enforcement orders, including written agreements or consent or cease and 17 Table of Contents desist orders, or more drastic measures should circumstances warrant. In addition, the FDIC has the power to deem the Bank only adequately capitalized even though its capital ratios meet the well capitalized standard. In such event, the Bank would be prohibited from using brokered deposits, which have been a source of funds for us in recent years, and rates on deposits would be limited to market rates determined by the FDIC, potentially adversely affecting our liquidity. The terms of any such corrective action could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions generally. From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U. S. was greatly reduced. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or requiring government intervention to avoid failure. The California economy had been particularly hard hit by the recession, and the economic decline in California was a major factor leading to substantial increases in the Company’s nonperforming loans since December 31, 2007, including construction, development and land loans, and unsecured commercial and consumer loans. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high nationally and in the State of California. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, the values of the real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Continued negative market developments also may continue to adversely affect consumer confidence levels and payment patterns, which could cause delinquencies and default rates to continue at high levels, which could continue to adversely affect our levels of nonperforming assets and allowance for loan losses. While improving economic conditions have resulted in a substantial decrease in our nonperforming loans and assets from year-end 2009 to year-end 2010, the levels were still significantly higher than at the end of 2008 or 2007. In particular, total non-covered nonperforming assets decreased to $46.5 million at December 31, 2010 from $67.7 million at December 31, 2009 and increased from $20.5 million at December 31, 2008, representing 2.98%, 4.12% and 1.19% of total non-covered loans owned at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total non-covered nonperforming assets, net of SBA guarantees, decreased to $43.2 million at December 31, 2010 from $64.9 million at December 31, 2009 and increased from $18.3 million at December 31, 2008, representing 3.04%, 4.39% and 1.19% of total non-covered loans and other real estate owned at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company had non-covered nonperforming commercial real estate loans of $29.2 million, $39.9 million and $13.1 million as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and no subprime mortgage loans as of any of those dates. Throughout this Annual Report, “non-covered” loans refer to all of the Bank’s loans other than those loans acquired in the Bank’s April 16, 2010 FDIC-assisted transaction, which are referred to as “covered loans.” See “Item 1 – BUSINESS – Recent Developments –FDIC-assisted Acquisition” above. Overall, during 2010, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the State of California, the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate; • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; • an impairment of our investment securities; and • an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings 18 Table of Contents Concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risks in the event of a prolonged real estate recession or natural disaster. Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in real estate loans, particularly commercial real estate. Approximately $928.8 million or 60.8% and $1.0 billion or 66.9% of the Company’s loan portfolio were concentrated in commercial real estate and construction loans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although commercial loans generally provide for higher interest rates and shorter terms than single-family residential loans, such loans generally involve a higher degree of risk, as the ability of borrowers to repay these loans is often dependent upon the profitability of the borrowers’ businesses. Commercial real estate loans, however, typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to one residential mortgage loan. During the past few years, the real estate market in Southern California deteriorated significantly, as evidenced by declining market values, reduced transaction volume, and increased foreclosure rates, and this deterioration resulted in an increase in the level of the Company’s nonperforming loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. The levels of nonperforming loans and assets generally, and of commercial real estate loans specifically, are set forth above under “—Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions generally.” Even though the Company continues to reduce the concentration of real estate loans, if economic conditions and the real estate markets do not improve or worsen, the result will likely be reduced income, increased expenses, and less cash available for lending and other activities, which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As the primary collateral for many of the Company’s loans rests on commercial real estate properties, deterioration in the real estate market in the areas the Company serves could reduce the value of the collateral for many of the Company’s loans and negatively impact the repayment ability of many of its borrowers. Such deterioration would likely also reduce the amount of loans the Company makes to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact the Company’s business. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural disaster like those California has experienced in the past, including earthquakes, brush fires, and flooding, could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans and negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. In addition, banking regulators now give commercial real estate loans extremely close scrutiny, due to risks relating to the cyclical nature of the real estate market and related risks for lenders with high concentrations of such loans. The regulators have required banks with relatively high levels of commercial real estate loans to implement enhanced underwriting standards, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, which has resulted in higher allowances for possible loan losses. Expectations for higher capital levels have also materialized. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our net income, and any requirement that we maintain higher capital levels could adversely impact financial performance measures such as earnings per share. Pursuant to the Bank’s MOU with the FDIC and the DFI, we are currently subject to higher than normal capital requirements. See “Item 1 – BUSINESS – Informal Regulatory Agreements” above. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At December 31, 2010, we had $315.3 million, or 20.6% of total loans, in commercial loans. Commercial lending involves risks that are different from those associated with commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrower’s cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. While our non-covered nonperforming assets decreased by nearly 31.4% from year-end 2009 to year-end 2010, the levels are still substantial on a historic basis. Until 19 Table of Contents economic and market conditions improve, we expect that our level of non-covered nonperforming loans will continue to impact our earnings, and could have a substantial adverse impact if conditions deteriorate further. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our level of interest income. Additionally, our noninterest expense has increased due to the costs of reappraising adversely classified assets, legal and other costs associated with loan collections, operating costs related to foreclosed assets, and various other expenses that would not typically be incurred in a normal operating environment. Furthermore, when we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires a significant commitment of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will avoid further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. We may experience loan and lease losses in excess of our allowance for loan and lease losses. We endeavor to limit the risk that borrowers might fail to repay; nevertheless, losses can and do occur. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan and lease losses in our accounting records, through our loan underwriting process based on estimates of the following: • historical loss experience with our loans; • evaluation of economic conditions; • assessment of risk factors for loans with exposure to the economies of southern California and Pacific Rim countries; • regular reviews of the quality mix and size of the overall loan portfolio; • a detailed cash flow analysis for non-performing loans; • regular reviews of delinquencies; and • the quality of the collateral underlying our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level that we believe is adequate to absorb any specifically identified losses as well as any other losses inherent in our loan portfolio at a given date. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans in the portfolio that could result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that have been identified. In 2010 our asset quality metrics appear to have stabilized, so that for the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $22.0 million (including $1.0 million for covered loans) and incurred net loan charge-offs of $27.5 million, respectively, as compared to $77.5 million and $57.1 million, respectively, for 2009. At December 31, 2010, our total non-covered nonperforming assets, net of SBA guarantees, had decreased to $43.2 million from $67.7 million at December 31, 2009. Continued weak economic conditions, particularly in the construction and real estate markets, as well as other factors such as changes in interest rates and other factors which are beyond our control, could again cause our estimate of probable losses or actual loan losses to exceed our current allowance. In addition, the FDIC and the DFI, as part of their supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. Such agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses or to recognize further losses, based on their judgments, which may be different from those of our management. Any such increase in the allowance required by the FDIC or the DFI could also hurt our business. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment which adversely affect the reliability of their appraisal. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to decrease. 20 Table of Contents As a result of any of these factors, there may be less security than anticipated at the time the loan was originally made. If there is less security and a default occurs, we may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan. Our expenses have increased and are likely to continue to increase as a result of increases in FDIC insurance premiums. The FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits or the comparable percentage of the assessment base at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.35%. Recent bank failures have depleted the deposit insurance fund balance, which has been in a negative position since the end of 2009, and the FDIC currently has until September 30, 2020 to bring the reserve ratio back to the statutory minimum. The FDIC has stated that it expects insured institution failures to peak in 2010, which will result in continued charges against the Deposit Insurance Fund, and they have implemented a restoration plan that changes both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. As part of this plan, the FDIC adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The FDIC also imposed a special assessment in 2009 and required the prepayment of three years of FDIC insurance premiums at the end of 2009. The prepayments are designed to help address liquidity issues created by potential timing differences between the collection of premiums and charges against the DIF, but it is generally expected that assessment rates will continue to increase in the near term due to the significant cost of bank failures and the relatively large number of troubled banks. In addition, as with many institutions, our FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased since the beginning of the recession due to the relative condition of the Bank. Any further significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain banking customers, and our efforts to compete may reduce our profitability. Competition in the banking industry in the markets we serve may limit our ability to continue to attract and retain banking customers. The banking business in our current and intended future market areas is highly competitive with respect to virtually all products and services. While our primary market area is generally dominated by a relatively small number of major banks with many offices operating over a wide geographic area, our three main competitors in our niche markets are three Korean-American banks all of which are approximately 30% larger in asset size. These three competitors also focus their business strategies on Korean-American consumers and businesses. Primary competitors in the greater San Francisco, Chicago and Seattle metropolitan areas are also locally owned and operated Korean-American banks and subsidiaries of Korean banks. These competitors have branches located in many of the same neighborhoods as the Company, provide similar types of products and services and use the same Korean language publications and media for their marketing purposes. There is a high level of competition within this specific market, limiting organic growth opportunities. While major banks have not historically focused their marketing efforts on the Korean-American customer base in Southern California, their competitive influence could increase in the future. Such banks have substantially greater lending limits than the Company, offer certain services the Company cannot, may have access to lower cost of funds and often operate with “economies of scale” that result in lower operating costs than the Company on a per loan or per asset basis. In addition to competitive factors impacting our specific market niche, we are affected by more general competitive trends in the banking industry, including intra-state and interstate consolidation, competition from non-bank sources, and technological innovations. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, with the increase in bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Ultimately, competition can and does increase our cost of funds, reduce loan yields and drive down our net interest margin, thereby reducing profitability. It can also make it more difficult for us to continue to increase the size of our loan portfolio and deposit base, and could cause us to rely more heavily on wholesale borrowings, which are generally more expensive than deposits. 21 Table of Contents Recently enacted legislation and our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program may increase costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), as augmented by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”), was intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP Capital Purchase Program”) may result in increased regulation of the industry in general and/or TARP Capital Purchase Program participants in particular. Specifically, so long as shares of Center Financial’s Series A Preferred Stock issued as part of the TARP Capital Purchase Program remain outstanding, Center Financial may not declare or pay any dividends on its common stock, or repurchase or redeem any of its common stock, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are fully paid. In addition, Center Financial must comply with the U.S. Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance. Such standards restricts our ability to pay certain compensation, including bonuses, incentive compensation, and severance payments, to our Senior Executive Officers (as defined in the ARRA) as well as other specified, highly-compensated employees. Compliance with such regulations may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Recently enacted and potential further financial regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: • a reduction in the ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; 22 Table of Contents • increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; • the limitation on the ability to raise new capital through the use of trust preferred securities, as any new issuances of these securities will no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; • a potential reduction in fee income due to limits on interchange fees applicable to larger institutions which could effectively reduce the fees we can charge; and • the limitation on the ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may affect us. However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and liquidity of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are inter-connected as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral held by us cannot be liquidated at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through traditional deposits, brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of securities or loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance the Company’s activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. The Company’s access to liquidity sources could be detrimentally impacted by a decrease in the level of the Company’s business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which the Company’s loans are concentrated. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by more general factors such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The Company relies on commercial and retail deposits, brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (“FHLB”) and other borrowings to fund its operations. Although the Company has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, it might not be possible to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, the Company’s results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Although the Company considers these sources of funds adequate for its liquidity needs, the Company may be compelled to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, the Company may seek additional financing in the future to achieve our business objectives, and additional borrowings may or may not be available and, if available, may not be so on favorable terms. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected by the recent adverse economic trend, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. The Company actively monitors the depository institutions that hold its federal funds sold and due from banks cash balances. Access to the Company’s cash equivalents and federal funds sold could be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety of principal, and the Company diversifies its due from banks and federal funds sold among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. The financial conditions of the counterparties are routinely reviewed as part of the Company’s asset/liability management process. Balances in the Company’s 23 Table of Contents accounts with financial institutions in the U.S. may exceed the FDIC insurance limits. While the Company monitors and adjusts the balances in our accounts as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if the financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. In addition, due to the nature of the market the Company serves, a significant portion of its deposits are held by customers with ties to South Korea who may be inclined to transfer such deposits to South Korea depending on the relative value of the U. S. dollar and the South Korean currency. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company experienced a significant loss of deposits when customers transferred deposits to South Korea as a result of the devaluation of South Korean currency to the U. S. dollar. To date, these deposits have been replaced by retail deposits and wholesale funding. If an additional sustained withdrawal of deposits under similar circumstances should occur in the future, the Company’s liquidity position could be significantly and adversely impacted. The value of securities in our investment portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has been volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit, liquidity risks and illiquid markets for certain securities. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. In connection with Center Bank’s assumption of the banking operations of Innovative Bank from the FDIC, if our assumptions in entering into assumption agreements with loss-share are incorrect, we may sustain losses that are not covered by the FDIC’s loss share receivable, which could adversely affect our operating results. The Company’s decision regarding the fair value of the assets acquired as part of the Innovative Bank transaction, including the FDIC loss share receivable, could be inaccurate, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospect. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the acquired loans, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of secured loans. In FDIC-assisted acquisitions that include loss sharing agreements, the Company may record a loss sharing asset that the Company considers adequate to absorb future losses which may occur in the acquired loan portfolio. In determining the size of the loss sharing asset, the Company analyzes the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and classification of loans, volume and trends in delinquencies and nonaccruals, local economic conditions, and other pertinent information. If the Company’s assumptions are incorrect, the balance of the FDIC loss share receivable may at any time be insufficient to cover future loan losses, and credit loss provisions may be needed to respond to different economic conditions or adverse developments in the acquired loan portfolio. Any increase in future loan losses could have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s ability to obtain reimbursement under the loss sharing agreement on covered assets depends on the Company’s compliance with the terms of the loss sharing agreements. Management must certify to the FDIC on a quarterly basis the Company’s compliance with the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as a prerequisite to obtaining reimbursement from the FDIC for realized losses on covered assets. The required terms of the agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a specific asset or group of assets permanently losing their loss sharing coverage. Additionally, management may decide to forgo loss share coverage on certain assets to allow greater flexibility over the management of certain assets. As of December 31, 2010, $116.3 million, or 5.1% of the Company’s assets, were covered by the aforementioned FDIC loss sharing agreements. Under the terms of the FDIC loss sharing agreements, the assignment or transfer of a loss sharing agreement to another entity generally requires the written consent of the FDIC. In addition, the Bank may not assign or otherwise transfer a loss sharing agreement during its term without the prior consent of the FDIC. No assurance can be given that the Company will manage the covered assets in such a way as to always maintain loss share coverage on all such assets. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We acquired Innovative Bank in FDIC-assisted transaction in 2010. We may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of 24 Table of Contents the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If our information systems were to experience a system failure or a breach in network security, our business and reputation could suffer. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. The Company’s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect its computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. In addition, the Company must be able to protect its computer systems and network infrastructure against physical damage, security breaches and service disruption caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the Company’s computer systems and network infrastructure. The Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems and with the help of third-party service providers, will continue to implement security technology and monitor and update operational procedures to prevent such damage. However, if such failures, interruptions or security breaches were to occur, they could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, a loss of customer business, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to significant restrictions on compensation payable to our executive officers and other key employees. Our ability to attract and retain key officers and employees may be impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. In 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) became law. The ARRA, through the implementing regulations of the U.S. Treasury, significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions originally imposed on TARP participants, including us. Among other things, these restrictions limit our ability to pay bonuses and other incentive compensation and make severance payments. These restrictions will continue to apply to us for as long as the preferred stock we issued pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program remains outstanding. These restrictions may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel and otherwise compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability, business and prospects. Banking companies’ earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. The Company is subject to interest rate risk to the degree that interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than interest-earning assets. For example, if the rate of interest we pay on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest we receive on loans, securities, and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income and therefore our earnings could be adversely affected. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other liabilities. Given the current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning 25 Table of Contents assets, the interest rate spread could be expected to decrease during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to increase during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse or a positive effect on results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for products and services. For example, rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with increased loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments loan repayment rates generally decline and in a falling interest rate environment loan repayment rates generally increase. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. When rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. The Company’s compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of its activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. The Company is also subject to capitalization guidelines established by its regulators, which require the Company to maintain adequate capital to support its growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the Company’s cost of compliance could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ that are now applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. In addition, as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Company is subject to certain additional restrictions on its dividend and repurchase activities and compensation arrangements, and the U.S. Congress or federal bank regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system which may apply to all banking institutions, or may instead be more specifically targeted at TARP Capital Purchase Program participants. If we are not able to successfully keep pace with technological changes affecting the industry, our business could be hurt. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better service clients and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands, as well as create additional efficiencies within our operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change in the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur additional costs for environmental clean up. The cost of cleaning up or paying damages or penalties associated with environmental problems could increase the Company’s operating expenses. If a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company will often purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. The Company also could be compelled to assume the management responsibilities of commercial properties whose owners have defaulted on their loans. The Company also leases premises for its branch operations and corporate office in locations where environmental problems may exist. Although the Company has lending and facility leasing guidelines intended to identify properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of these properties. As a result, environmental laws could force the Company to clean up the hazardous waste located on these properties (at the Company’s expense) and cost might exceed their fair market value. Further, even if environmental laws did not hold the Company responsible for the environmental clean up of such properties, it might be difficult or impossible to sell properties until the environmental problems were remediated. 26 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in South Korea could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to South Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in South Korea. If economic conditions in South Korea deteriorate, we could, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to South Korea. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may adversely impact the recoverability of investments with or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in South Korea may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with Nara Bancorp Because the exchange ratio is fixed and the market price of our stock and Nara Bancorp’s stock will fluctuate, our shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the Merger consideration they may receive. On December 9, 2010, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Nara Bancorp. If the proposed Merger is completed, each of our outstanding shares will convert into 0.7804 shares of Nara Bancorp’s common stock (the “Exchange Ratio”). The Exchange Ratio was fixed so that, after completing the proposed Merger, our shareholders would own approximately 45% of the post-Merger combined company, and Nara Bancorp’s shareholders would own approximately 55% of the combined company. The Exchange Ratio is not subject to adjustment based on changes in the trading price of our stock or Nara Bancorp’s common stock before the closing of the proposed Merger. As a result, our shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the Merger consideration they will receive if the Merger is completed. Because the Exchange Ratio is fixed, the value of the Merger consideration will not reflect changes in the price of our stock or Nara Bancorp’s stock, nor will it reflect the relative performance of Center Financial and Nara Bancorp between December 9, 2010 and the closing of the Merger. We may be unable to fully realize the benefits anticipated by the proposed Merger, including estimated cost savings and synergies, or it may take longer than anticipated to achieve such benefits. The realization of the benefits anticipated as a result of the proposed Merger, including cost savings and synergies, will depend in part on the successful integration of our operations with Nara Bancorp’s operations. There can be no assurance that such operations will be integrated successfully. Moreover, the integration process may take substantially longer than anticipated. The dedication of management resources to such integration may detract attention from our day-to-day business and the integration costs may be substantial. In addition, the integration process entails a risk that key employees will leave or major customers will take their business elsewhere. Such effects, including, but not limited to, incurrence of unexpected costs or delays in connection with such integration, may have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the combined company. Required regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer to receive than expected or may impose conditions that are not anticipated or cannot be met. Before the Merger may be completed, various approvals must be obtained from the bank regulatory authorities. Although Center Financial and Nara Bancorp have each reported profits in recent quarters, both companies have had significant quarterly losses within the past two years and have been the subject of informal regulatory action. We entered into an MOU with bank regulatory authorities and Nara Bancorp adopted board resolutions at the request of bank regulatory authorities, in each case directed toward reducing nonperforming assets, resolving perceived weaknesses in lending and specified other banking operations and, in our case, attaining and maintaining specified, higher than normal, regulatory capital ratios. To obtain regulatory approval of the proposed Merger, we and Nara Bancorp must provide adequate information to the regulatory authorities that we have satisfactorily addressed these regulatory concerns. We anticipate that this may result in a longer than normal regulatory approval process and therefore do not expect to be able to complete the proposed Merger before the second half of 2011. If we are unable to satisfy the regulators’ concerns, we will not be able to complete the proposed Merger. In addition, the relevant bank regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the Merger or require changes to 27 Table of Contents the terms of the Merger Agreement. Such conditions or changes may have the effect of delaying completion of the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the combined company following consummation of the proposed Merger. Uncertainties related to the pending Merger may adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about the effect of the proposed Merger may have adverse consequences for our employee and customer relations. We may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Some employees may choose to leave as a result of uncertainty regarding their future role in the combined company. Customers and others that deal with us may terminate their business relationship with us or may defer expanding existing relationships while the Merger is pending. The loss of key employees or important customer relationships could have a material adverse effect upon our future business. We are subject to various contractual restrictions while the proposed Merger is pending. The Merger Agreement provides various contractual restrictions upon our operations. Without Nara Bancorp’s consent, we may not pursue acquisition or certain other business opportunities that may arise while the proposed Merger is pending. In addition, certain corporate actions will require Nara Bancorp’s prior consent. These restrictions will impair our flexibility and may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion or abandonment of the proposed Merger. If the proposed Merger does not close, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred and are continuing to incur substantial expenses in connection with the proposed Merger for investment banking, legal and accounting fees and other transaction costs. These expenses may materially reduce our earnings. If the Merger does not close, such expenses will have been incurred without realization of the expected benefits. Termination of the Merger Agreement may negatively affect us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may suffer various adverse consequences, including: • our business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the proposed Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Merger; • the market price of our common stock might decline to the extent that the market price prior to termination reflects a market assumption that the proposed Merger will be completed; and • the payment of a termination fee, if required under the circumstances, may adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. The Merger Agreement provides for a potential termination fee of $10 million or $2.5 million, depending on the circumstances. Risks Related to Our Securities The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to sell shares of common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price in the future are: • formal regulatory action against us; • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; 28 Table of Contents • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • acquisitions of other banks or financial institutions, through FDIC-assisted transactions or otherwise; • actions by shareholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involve or affect us; and • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in “Forward-Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this “RISK FACTORS” section. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for several years, at times reaching unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. The Company is currently prohibited from paying cash dividends on its capital stock without the prior approval of federal banking regulators and the U.S. Treasury Department, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to pay dividends in the future. The Company has entered into an MOU with the FRB pursuant to which the Company must obtain the prior approval of the FRB in order to pay cash dividends. See “Item 1—BUSINESS —Informal Regulatory Agreements” above. In addition, under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury Department on December 12, 2008 under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Company must obtain the prior approval of the U.S. Treasury Department prior to paying any dividends on its capital stock before December 12, 2011. Accordingly, without the prior approval of federal and state banking regulators and the U.S. Treasury Department, the Company cannot pay any cash dividends on its common stock. The prior approval of the FRB is also required for the payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, or the payment of interest on the Company’s subordinated debt securities. In view of its current capital levels, it is anticipated that the Company will likely continue to receive approval to pay the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and interest on the subordinated debt securities, although no assurance can be given that such approvals will be granted. Any failure to pay such dividends or interest when due could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Moreover, during any period in which the Company has deferred payment of interest otherwise due and payable on its subordinated debt securities, or any unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, the Company may not make any dividends or distributions with respect to its capital stock, including the common stock. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is further limited by California corporation law. Notwithstanding the foregoing legal limitations, the Board of Directors retains in its full discretion the authority to declare dividends, and there can be no assurance that the Board will authorize any dividends on the common stock in the future. The Company relies heavily on the payment of dividends from its subsidiary, Center Bank, and such dividends are subject to federal and state regulatory requirements and approvals. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and to service its own obligations depends on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company, as the Company has no other independent source of significant income. However, as a result of the MOU and banking regulatory requirements generally, the Bank is limited in its ability to pay cash dividends and must obtain prior regulatory approval in order to do so. 29 Table of Contents As a general matter, the payment of dividends by the Bank is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the FDIC. All banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum ratio of qualifying total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8%, at least one-half of which must be in the form of Tier 1 capital, and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average adjusted assets of 4%. If (i) any of these required ratios are increased; (ii) the total of risk-weighted assets of a bank increases significantly; and/or (iii) a bank’s income decreases significantly, a bank may decide to or be required to retain a greater portion of its earnings to achieve and maintain the required capital or asset ratios, thereby reducing the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends by a bank to its parent holding company. In addition, the FDIC has the power to prohibit a bank from paying dividends if, in its view, such payments would constitute unsafe or unsound banking practices. The MOU the Bank has entered into with the FDIC and the DFI requires the Bank to maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of not less than 9% and a total risk-based capital ratio of not less than 13% while the MOU remains in effect. The Bank’s regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2010 exceeded these requirements. Also under the Bank’s MOU, the Bank must receive prior approval from the FDIC to pay dividends to the Company, and under the Company’s MOU with the FRB, the Company must receive the prior approval of the FRB to receive dividends from the Bank. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company is also limited by California corporation law and the California Financial Code. As a result of the Bank’s 2009 financial performance, the Bank is still required by the California Financial Code to obtain the prior approval of the DFI to pay dividends to the Company. Further, whether dividends are paid and their frequency and amount will depend on the financial condition and performance, and the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Bank. The foregoing restrictions on dividends paid by the Bank may limit the Company’s ability to obtain funds from such dividends for its cash needs, including funds for payment of its debt service requirements and operating expenses and for payment of cash dividends to the Company’s shareholders. Your investment may be diluted because of the ability of management to offer stock to others and stock options. The shares of the Company do not have preemptive rights. This means that you may not be entitled to buy additional shares if shares are offered to others in the future. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred under our Articles of Incorporation. As of December 31, 2010 we had 39,914,686 shares of common stock outstanding and 55,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding. Nothing restricts management’s ability to offer additional shares of stock for fair value to others in the future. In addition, when our directors, executive officers and other employees exercise outstanding stock options, your ownership in the Company will be diluted. As of December 31, 2010 there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 571,777 shares of our common stock with an average exercise price of $17.30 per share. There were also an additional 2,255,179 shares available remaining for grant of options or restricted stock awards under our 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended. Shares of our preferred stock eligible for future issuance and sale could also have a dilutive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Although our board of directors has no present intent to issue shares of preferred stock, such shares could be issued in the future. If such shares of preferred stock are made convertible into shares of common stock, there could be a dilutive effect on the shares of common stock then outstanding. In addition, shares of preferred stock may be provided a preference over holders of common stock upon our liquidation or with respect to the payment of dividends, in respect of voting rights or in the redemption of our common stock. The rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions applicable to any series or preferred stock would be determined by resolution of our board of directors. We also have a Warrant outstanding to the U S. Treasury Department to purchase 432,290 shares of the Company’s authorized but unissued common stock at an exercise price of $9.54 per share until December 12, 2018. The holders of our Series A perpetual preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. In December 2008, the Company issued and sold $55.0 million worth of its Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Treasury Department. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock could reduce investment returns to the Company’s common shareholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing shareholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. The Company’s board of directors suspended its quarterly cash dividends beginning in the first quarter of 2009, and unless the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed, the Company will not be able to resume paying cash dividends without the consent of the U.S. Treasury Department. The Company will also be prohibited paying any dividends on its common stock in the event of any unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock also ranks senior to the Company’s common stock on liquidation. The liquidation amount of the Series A Preferred Stock is $1,000 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock ranks pari passu to the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, which means that if all dividends payable on the Series B Preferred 30 Table of Contents Stock have not been paid in full, any dividend declared on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be declared and paid pro rata with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock by December 12, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 12, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5% per annum (approximately $2.7 million annually) to 9% per annum (approximately $5.0 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our earnings. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had $18.0 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to our statutory trust. The trust purchased the junior subordinated debentures from us using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock, and Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock or preferred stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to shareholders. If certain conditions are met, we have the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) at any time or from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters in a deferral period, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock or any series of preferred stock. Provisions in our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent changes in control of our corporation or our management. These provisions make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, which could reduce the market price of our common stock and the price that you receive if you sell your shares in the future. These provisions include the following: • no cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • The requirement that our board of directors consider the potential social and economic effects on our employees, depositors, customers and the communities we serve as well as certain other factors, when evaluating a possible tender offer, merger or other acquisition of the Company. These provisions will not affect the pending merger with Nara Bancorp, which has been unanimously approved by Center Financial’s Board of Directors and is being recommended by the Board for approval by the shareholders at the appropriate time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC’s Staff 180 days or more before the end of the Company’s fiscal year 2010 relating to the Company’s periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 