D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, which may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares, or ADS, could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Operations The profitability of our operations, and the cash flows generated by our operations, are affected by changes in the market price for gold which in the past has fluctuated widely. Substantially all of our revenue and cash flows have come from the sale of gold. Historically, the market price for gold has fluctuated widely and has been affected by numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: • the demand for gold for investment purposes, industrial uses and for use in jewelry; • international or regional political and economic trends; • the strength of the US dollar, the currency in which gold prices generally are quoted, and of other currencies; • market expectations regarding inflation rates; • interest rates; • speculative activities; • actual or expected purchases and sales of gold bullion holdings by central banks, the International Monetary Fund, or other large gold bullion holders or dealers; • hedging activities by gold producers; and • the production and cost levels for gold in major gold-producing nations. The volatility of gold prices is illustrated in the following table, which shows the approximate annual high, low and average of the afternoon London Bullion Market fixing price of gold in US dollars for the past ten years. Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low Average 2002 349 278 310 2003 416 320 363 2004 454 375 409 2005 537 411 444 2006 725 525 604 2007 841 608 695 2008 1,011 712 871 2009 1,213 810 972 2010 1,421 1,058 1,224 2011 1,895 1,319 1,571 2012 (through February) 1,763 1,699 1,652 If gold prices should fall below and remain below our cost of production for any sustained period we may experience losses, and if gold prices should fall below our cash costs of production we may be forced to re-plan and mine higher grade ore which will negatively impact on our reserves and life of mine (“LOM”) plans. Low gold prices for an extended period could result in us having to curtail or suspend some or all of our mining operations. In addition, we would also have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on our ability to recover from any losses we may incur during that period and on our ability to maintain adequate reserves. Our total cash cost of production per ounce of gold sold was $716 in the year ended December 31, 2011, $699 in the year ended December 31, 2010 and $512 in the year ended December 31, 2009. We expect that Morila’s cash costs per ounce will rise as the life of the mine advances as a result of expected declining grade, which will adversely affect our profitability in the absence of any mitigating factors. The high grades expected from the underground mining at Loulo will, in the absence of any other increases, have a positive impact on unit costs. Our mining operations may yield less gold under actual production conditions than indicated by our gold reserve figures, which are estimates based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions as to mining and recovery factors, production costs and the price of gold. 9 Table of Contents The ore reserve estimates contained in this Annual Report are estimates of the mill delivered quantity and grade of gold in our deposits and stockpiles. They represent the amount of gold that we believe can be mined, processed and sold at prices sufficient to recover our estimated total cash costs of production, remaining investment and anticipated additional capital expenditures. Our ore reserves are estimated based upon many factors, including: • the results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of the orebodies; • past experience with mining properties; • depletion from past mining; • mining method and associated dilution and ore loss factors; • gold price; and • operating costs. Because our ore reserve estimates are calculated based on current estimates of future production costs and gold prices, they should not be interpreted as assurances of the economic life of our gold deposits or the profitability of our future operations. Reserve estimates may require revisions based on actual production experience. Further, a sustained decline in the market price of gold may render the recovery of ore reserves containing relatively lower grades of gold mineralization uneconomical and ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. The failure of the reserves to meet our recovery expectations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in Mali, that could significantly affect our mines in Mali and our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with operating gold mines in Mali. In 2011, gold produced in Mali represented approximately 64% of our consolidated group gold production. On March 21, 2012, Mali was subject to an attempted coup d’état that resulted in the suspension of the constitution, the partial closing of the borders and the general disruption of business activities in the country. At this time, the political situation in Mali is not clear, and government ministries and regulatory bodies are not functioning normally. Some foreign countries have announced that they have suspended financial aid to Mali. Other countries, including the regional body Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas), have threatened the imposition of sanctions against Mali, including the closing of borders and freezing of assets in the regional central bank, if civilian rule is not resumed in Mali in the near term. The supply of consumables to our mines in Mali has been intermittent as a result of the political situation. Although we have continued to produce gold during this political crisis, there can be no assurance that the political situation will not disrupt our ability to continue gold production, or our ability to sell and ship our gold from our mines in Mali. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Malian political crisis will not have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in Côte d’Ivoire, that could significantly affect the success of the Tongon mine. We have been subject to risks associated with operating the Tongon mine in Côte d’Ivoire. Côte d’Ivoire has experienced several years of political chaos, including an attempted coup d’état. A dispute over the recent Côte d’Ivoire presidential election in November 2010 resulted in the establishment of two rival governments. The Electoral Commission declared Mr. A. Ouattara as the winner. However, the incumbent president, Mr. Gbagbo challenged the results and refused to give up office. International sanctions were imposed on Mr. Gbagbo and those individuals and institutions supporting him. Included in the list of entities against whom sanctions were imposed were the Ports of Abidjan and San Pedro, the two key shipping ports of Côte d’Ivoire, and the SIR, the Ivorian Petroleum refinery. As a result of the sanctions we had to re-arrange our logistics for our Tongon mine and shipped all materials for Tongon through the Port of Dakar in Senegal. While the Tongon mine continued to operate throughout the crisis, at times we were unable to ship and sell our Tongon gold production, which resulted in timing discrepancy between our gold produced and the recognition of revenue from gold sales. However, the political impasse was resolved during 2011 and Mr. A. Ouattara was sworn in as the President of Côte d’Ivoire and the previous incumbent detained. While all our gold production was subsequently sold and the country reverted to normality, there is no assurance that similar events may not occur in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our gold production and financial results. In 2011, the European Union lifted sanctions on the Ports of Abidjan and San Pedro, and the SIR. Our normal supply routes hare have re-opened and we are sourcing our goods directly through the ports. However, though the post-election turmoil has settled, our operations and financial conditions could be impacted by future political and economic instabilities. 10 Table of Contents Any appreciation of the currencies in which we incur costs against the US dollar could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While our revenue is derived from the sale of gold in US dollars, a significant portion of our input costs are incurred in currencies other than the dollar, primarily Euro, Communauté Financière Africaine franc, South African Rand, and the Congolese franc. Accordingly, any appreciation in such other currencies could adversely affect our results of operations. The profitability of our operations and the cash flows generated by these operations are significantly affected by the fluctuations in the price, cost and supply of fuel and other inputs, and we would be adversely affected by future increases in the prices of fuel and other inputs. Fuel, power and consumables, including diesel, steel, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, form a relatively large part of our operating costs. The cost of these consumables is impacted to varying degrees, by fluctuations in the price of oil, exchange rates and availability of supplies. Such fluctuations have a significant impact upon our operating costs and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for mining projects, new and existing, and could even render certain projects non-viable. Fuel is the primary input utilized in our mining operations, and our results are significantly affected by the price and availability of fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Fuel prices are volatile. During 2010, the average price of our landed fuel was higher than 2009, and it has been rising in 2011. In the year ended December 31, 2011, the cost of fuel and other power generation costs comprised 25 % of our operating costs and the annual price increase of our landed fuel was 22%. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical factors and supply and demand. While we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, factors beyond our control make it impossible to predict the future availability of fuel. Recent political unrest in certain oil producing countries has led to an increase in the cost of fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of fuel, or restrictions on the transport of fuel, there could be reductions in the supply of fuel and significant increases in the cost of fuel. We are not parties to any agreements that protect us against price increases or guarantee the availability of fuel. Major reductions in the availability of fuel or significant increases in its cost, or a continuation of current high prices for a significant period of time, would have a material adverse impact on us. Our business may be adversely affected if the State of Mali fails to repay Value Added Tax, or TVA, owing to Morila and Loulo. Our mining companies operating in Mali are exonerated by their Establishment Conventions from paying TVA for the three years following first commercial production. After that, TVA is payable and reimbursable. TVA is only reclaimable insofar as it is expended in the production of income. A key aspect in TVA recovery is managing the completion of the State of Mali’s audit of the taxpayer’s payments, at which time the State of Mali recognizes a liability. By December 2007, Morila had successfully concluded a reimbursement protocol with the State of Mali for all TVA reimbursements it was owed up to June 2005. Morila was unable to conclude a second protocol subsequent to December 2007, however, and pursuant to its establishment convention, began offsetting TVA reimbursements it was owed against corporate and other taxes payable by Morila to the State of Mali. As a result of the offsets, Morila had recouped all its outstanding TVA as at December 31, 2010, as the State of Mali repaid all outstanding amounts by this date. As of December 31, 2011, TVA owed by the State of Mali amounted to $3.9 million (or 40%). While all the TVA at Morila is currently being refunded on a regular basis, we cannot guarantee that they will continue to reimburse the TVA going forward. During 2010 and 2011 Loulo has offset TVA reimbursements it was owed against corporate and other taxes payable by Loulo to the State of Mali. At December 30, 2010, TVA owed by the State of Mali to Loulo stood at $11.6 million. This amount has increased to $19 million at December 31, 2011. Included in the TVA owing amounts are amounts which had been extracted from the Morila and Loulo bank accounts and TVA refunds pertaining to disputed tax assessments. As at December 31, 2011 these amounted to $5.6 million (or 40%) owing to Morila and $7.63 million owing to Loulo. Subsequent to year end, and in relation to the disputed tax assessments, the State of Mali has offset a further $17.1 million from TVA refunds which was supposed to be paid to Loulo. 11 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to resolve disputed tax claims with the State of Mali. As at December 31, 2011, the group had received claims for various taxes from the State of Mali totaling $64.3 million, in respect of the Loulo and Morila mines. Having taken professional advice, the group considers the claims to be wholly without merit or foundation and is strongly defending its position, including following the appropriate legal process for such disputes in Mali. Both companies have legally binding mining conventions which guarantee fiscal stability, govern the taxes applicable for the companies and allow for international arbitration in the event that a dispute cannot be resolved in the country. Management continues to engage with the Malian authorities at the highest level to resolve this issue and believes this is achievable given the group’s experience in dealing with the State on similar issues, however, it may be necessary to arbitrate to resolve the disputes. If for any reason these disputed tax claims become due and payable the results of Morila and Loulo’s operations and financial position would be adversely affected, as would their ability to pay dividends to their shareholders. Accordingly, our business, cash flows and financial condition will be adversely affected if anticipated dividends are not paid. Certain factors may affect our ability to support the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment, and other assets on our consolidated statement of financial position. We review and test the carrying amount of our assets on an annual basis when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the net book value may not be recoverable. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, we prepare estimates of expected future discounted cash flows for each group of assets. Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units) for purposes of assessing impairment. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. Such cash flows are significantly affected by reserve and production estimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditures. We may incur losses or lose opportunities for gains as a result of any future use of derivative instruments to protect us against low gold prices. We have from time to time used derivative instruments to protect the selling price of some of our anticipated gold production. The intended effect of our derivative transactions was to lock in a fixed sale price for some of our future gold production to provide some protection against a subsequent fall in gold prices. Although we have currently ceased using derivative instruments to protect us against low gold prices at our operations, we may in the future determine to implement the use of derivatives in connection with a portion of our anticipated gold production. Derivative transactions can result in a reduction in revenue if the instrument price is less than the market price at the time the hedged sales are recognized. Moreover, our decision to enter into a given instrument would be based upon market assumptions. If these assumptions are not ultimately met, significant losses or lost opportunities for significant gains may result. In all, the use of these instruments may result in significant losses which will prevent us from realizing the positive impact of any subsequent increase in the price of gold on the portion of production covered by the instrument. Our underground project at Loulo, developing two mines at Yalea and Gara, is subject to all of the risks associated with project development and underground mining. Development of the underground mine at Yalea commenced in December 2006 and first ore was mined in April 2008. This planned mine, and the subsequent Gara underground mine, represents our entry into the business of underground mining, and the commencement of underground mining in Mali by any mining company. In connection with the development of the underground mines, we must build the necessary infrastructure, the costs of which are substantial. The underground mines may experience unexpected problems and delays during their development and construction. Delays in the commencement of gold production could occur and the development costs could be larger than expected, which could affect our results of operations and profitability. Since the commencement of the underground operations at Yalea, in working with a mining contractor, we have experienced a number of challenges which have led to delays and slower build up of production. These challenges included the availability of the underground fleet, the ability to drill and blast up holes and the contractor’s poor safety record. Following these setbacks experienced during 2009, we terminated the underground mining contract with the contractor and have assumed responsibility for underground mining at Loulo. At the beginning of 2010, we appointed a new contractor to develop the 12 Table of Contents Gara underground mine, and subsequently extended their contract at the end of 2010 to include the additional development of the Yalea underground mine. The development and operation of the underground mine has been negatively impacted by these issues and resulting delays, and we cannot assure you that such issues are fully resolved or that we will not have future delays. The business of underground mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards. In particular, as the development commences the operation could be subject to: • rockbursts; • seismic events; • underground fires; • cave-ins or falls of ground; • discharges of gases or toxic chemicals; • flooding; • accidents; and • other conditions resulting from drilling, blasting and the removal of material from an underground mine. We are at risk of experiencing any and all of these hazards. The occurrence of any of these hazards could delay the development of the mine, production, increase cash operating costs and result in additional financial liability for us. Our success may depend on our social and environmental performance. Our ability to operate successfully in communities will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the health, safety and well-being of our employees, the protection of the environment, and the creation of long term economic and social opportunities in the communities in which we operate. Mining companies are increasingly required to consider fair mining rent distribution and provide benefits to the communities and countries in which they operate, and are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. As a result of public concern about the real or perceived detrimental effects of economic globalization and global climate impacts, businesses generally and large multinational corporations in natural resources industries, in particular, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders, including employees, governments, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate, benefit and will continue to benefit from their commercial activities. Such pressures tend to be particularly focused on companies whose activities relate to non-renewable resources and are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage and legal suits. Certain non-governmental organizations oppose globalization and resource development and are often vocal critics of the mining industry and its practices. Adverse publicity by such non-governmental agencies could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial condition and could have an impact on the communities within which we operate. In addition, our ability to successfully obtain key permits and approvals to explore for, develop and operate mines and to successfully operate in communities around the world will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the creation of social and economic benefits in the surrounding communities, which may or may not be required by law. Mining operations should be designed to minimize the impact on such communities and the environment, for example, by modifying mining plans and operations or by relocating those affected to an agreed location. The cost of these measures could increase capital and operating costs and therefore could have an adverse impact upon our financial conditions and operations. We seek to promote improvements in health and safety, environmental performance and community relations. However, our ability to operate could be adversely impacted by accidents or events detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the health, safety and well-being of our employees, the environment or the communities in which we operate. 13 Table of Contents In July 2009, the Loulo mine experienced some disruption, caused by a small group of disaffected people unable to secure long term employment at the mine. The disruption resulted in some damage to the tailings pipeline as well as to some accommodation units and other property. All operations were suspended for 36 hours, following which all mining and processing operations were restored and operating back at normal capacity. We cannot assure you that similar events will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations and properties. In November 2011 and March 2012, the Tongon mine experienced temporary work stoppages during the course of negotiating a mine level agreement with a newly established union. We continue to negotiate the terms of the agreement with representatives of the union. We cannot assure you that similar work stoppages will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations. Actual cash costs of production, production results and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by our feasibility studies and scoping studies for new development projects. It typically takes a number of years from initial feasibility studies of a mining project until development is completed and, during that time, the economic feasibility of production may change. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future gold prices. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, there are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine, including: • the availability and timing of necessary environmental and governmental permits; • the timing and cost necessary to construct mining and processing facilities, which can be considerable; • the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and other materials; • the accessibility of transportation and other infrastructure, particularly in remote locations; and • the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. Mining at Gounkoto commenced in January 2011 and processing commenced in June 2011 with ore being hauled by truck to Loulo where it is processed in terms of a toll treatment agreement entered into between Somilo and Gounkoto. Kibali completed an optimized feasibility during the year and the first of two of the 14 villages were relocated to the new model village of Kokiza. Development of the Massawa project has been slowed down as we have advanced Gounkoto and Kibali, and we have revised the target commencement date of the project to 2016 in order to provide us with us with time to develop a power solution for the treatment of its metallurgically complex ore and to continue exploring. We cannot provide any assurance that the Kibali and Massawa projects will ultimately result in new commercial mining operations, or that our new commercial mining operations will be successful. We conduct mining, development and exploration activities in countries with developing economies and are subject to the risks of political and economic instability associated with these countries. We currently conduct mining, development and exploration activities in countries with developing economies. These countries and other emerging markets in which we may conduct operations have, from time to time, experienced economic or political instability. It is difficult to predict the future political, social and economic direction of the countries in which we operate, and the impact government decisions may have on our business. Any political or economic instability in the countries in which we currently operate could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The countries of Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) and Côte d’Ivoire have, since independence, experienced some form of political upheaval with varying forms of changes of government taking place. Goods are supplied to our operations in Mali through Ghana and Senegal, which routings have, to date, functioned satisfactorily. Our operations at Morila have been adversely affected by the higher transportation costs for diesel that now has to be delivered via Senegal. Any present or future policy changes in the countries in which we operate may in some way have a significant effect on our operations and interests. 14 Table of Contents The mining laws of Mali, Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, Burkina Faso, and DRC stipulate that, should an economic orebody be discovered on a property subject to an exploration permit, a permit that allows processing operations to be undertaken must be issued to the holder. Legislation in certain countries currently provides for the relevant government to acquire a free ownership interest in any mining project. The requirements of the various governments as to the foreign ownership and control of mining companies may change in a manner which adversely affects us. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the success of the Kibali project will depend in large part on our ability to overcome significant challenges. We are subject to risks associated with operating the Kibali project in the DRC. The Kibali project is located in the north-east region of the DRC and is subject to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties associated with operating in the DRC. Some of these risks include political and economic instability, high rates of inflation, severely limited infrastructure, lack of law enforcement, labor unrest, and war and civil conflict. In addition, the Kibali project is subject to the risks inherent in operating in any foreign jurisdiction including changes in government policy, restrictions on foreign exchange, changes in taxation policies, and renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts. The DRC is an impoverished country with physical and institutional infrastructure that is in a debilitated condition. It is in transition from a largely state-controlled economy to one based on free market principles, and from a non-democratic political system with a centralized ethnic power base to one based on more democratic principles. There can be no assurance that these changes will be effected or that the achievement of these objectives will not have material adverse consequences for the Kibali project. In November 2011, the DRC held a general presidential election and in December 2011, incumbent President Joseph Kabila was declared the winner of that election. There has been international and local criticism of the election and episodes of protests, some of which were accompanied by acts of violence. Any changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in the DRC may adversely affect operations and/or profitability of the Kibali project. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. These changes may impact the profitability and viability of the Kibali project. Furthermore, the Kibali project is located in a remote area of the DRC, which lacks basic infrastructure, including adequate roads and other transport, sources of power, water, housing, food and transport. In order to develop any of the mineral interests, facilities and material necessary to support operations in the remote locations in which they are situated must be established. The remoteness of the mineral interests would affect the potential viability of mining operations, as we would also need to establish substantially greater sources of power, water, physical plant, roads and other transport infrastructure than are currently present in the area. More specifically, we must obtain necessary licenses from the government to construct and operate hydropower stations, which will necessarily involve reconfiguring, refurbishing and maintaining existing stations. Our ability to produce sufficient power for the Kibali will be adversely affected to the extent such licenses cannot be obtained, or we are unable to comply with the conditions of such licenses. Moreover, the north-east region of the DRC has undergone civil unrest and instability that could have an impact on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC generally. Stability must be maintained in order for us to build and operate a mine at the Kibali project site. The impact of unrest and instability on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC could result in the impairment of the exploration, development and operations at the Kibali project. The communities near the Kibali project need to be resettled in an orderly and peaceful manner to allow the development and operation of a mine at the site. The first phase of houses have been built and the resettlement program has commenced, which has been implemented following agreement with the local authorities and communities affected by the project. During the year, the Resettlement Action Plan (“RAP”) progressed on schedule, with the first two of the 14 villages successfully relocating to the model village of Kokiza. Any failure to complete the settlement plan successfully will materially and adversely affect our ability to build and operate a mine at the Kibali project site. We face risks related to the development of the Kibali mine, as a new mining operation, that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction, commissioning and/or commencement of production. The global demand for mining and processing equipment may result in long lead times for the supply of such equipment. The actual costs to build a mine may vary substantially from the original cost estimates as a result of any of 15 Table of Contents a variety of factors. Operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of changes in the prices of commodities consumed and mining equipment used in the construction and operation of mining projects. Operations could be disrupted, resulting in additional costs and liabilities, if the mining contractors at the Kibali mine have financial difficulties or if a dispute arises in negotiating a mining contract, or if there is a delay in replacing an existing contractor. Increases in contract mining rates, in the absence of associated productivity increases, will also have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The SEC has proposed rules that may affect mining operations in the DRC. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) has directed the SEC to adopt rules regarding disclosure on potential conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured by a company that files reports with the SEC, and the SEC has issued proposed rules in response to their requirement. Conflict minerals include columbite-tantalite, cassiterite, gold, wolfamite or their derivatives or any other mineral or its derivatives determined by the Secretary of State to be financing conflict in the DRC or a bordering country. Under the rules as proposed by the SEC, reporting companies must disclose the origin of and certain other information concerning the conflict minerals. The mining of minerals is deemed to be considered the manufacturing of such minerals. If the proposed rules are adopted in their present form, we will be required to disclose in our annual report on Form 20-F that our minerals originated in the DRC and will need to furnish a conflict minerals report which includes a due diligence report and a certified independent private sector audit that is to be made publicly available on our website. The report will need to disclose whether or not we and the audit have determined that the conflict minerals are “conflict free”, meaning that they did not benefit or finance armed groups in the DRC. The report must include the due diligence measures that we took regarding the source and chain of custody of the minerals. As the final rules have not been implemented, both the content of the final rules and their effects remain uncertain. Compliance with the new rules may be demanding on both financial resources and personnel. The requirement that all SEC reporting companies disclose whether their products include conflict minerals, and if so, information concerning the origin of the conflict minerals, might cause reporting companies to take steps, or require their suppliers to take steps, to assure that minerals originating in the DRC are not included in minerals supplied to them for use in their products. It is possible that the rules, as currently proposed could adversely affect our ability to sell gold mined in the DRC. Under our joint venture agreements with AngloGold Ashanti Limited, or AngloGold Ashanti, we operate Morila and the Kibali project through a joint venture agreement and joint venture committee, and any disputes with AngloGold Ashanti over the management of Morila or the Kibali project could adversely affect our business. We jointly control Morila SA, the owner of the Morila mine, and Kibali Goldmines SPRL, the owner of the Kibali project, with AngloGold Ashanti under joint venture agreements. We are responsible for the day-to-day operations of Morila and the Kibali project, subject to the overall management control of the Morila SA and Kibali Goldmines SPRL boards, respectively. Substantially all major management decisions, including approval of a budget for Morila and the Kibali project, must be approved by the Morila SA and Kibali Goldmines SPRL boards, respectively. We and AngloGold Ashanti retain equal representation on the boards, with neither party holding a deciding vote. If a dispute arises between us and AngloGold Ashanti with respect to the management of Morila SA or Kibali Goldmines SPRL, and we are unable to amicably resolve the dispute, we may have to participate in arbitration or other proceeding to resolve the dispute, which could materially and adversely affect our business. The Kibali project development plan was approved by our board in January 2012 and will be presented for approval to AngloGold Ashanti at the earliest opportunity. In the interim, the Kibali board has approved the next three months’ budget of approximately $80 million, to continue the project’s momentum. There can be no assurance that the Kibali project will ultimately receive all the required approvals of all stakeholders or that disputes between the joint venture partners will not disrupt the development of the project. Our mines and projects face many risks related to their present or future operations that may impact cash flows and profitability. Our mines and projects are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for developing and operating mineral properties and mines, such as: • encountering unusual or unexpected formations; 16 Table of Contents • environmental pollution; • mechanical breakdowns; • safety-related stoppages; • work stoppages or other disruptions in labor force; • electrical power and fuel supply interruptions; • unanticipated ground conditions; and • personal injury and flooding. During 2011, Tongon’s operations were negatively impacted by flooding as a result of the rainy season and by problems encountered during the change-over from diesel generated power to Côte d’Ivoire’s national grid. Also, in November 2011, the Tongon mine suffered a major failure of the barring gear at its No 1 mill. As a result, management also shut down Tongon’s No 2 mill as well in the interests of personal safety and to protect the No 2 mill from a similar failure. In November 2011 and March 2012, the Tongon mine experienced temporary work stoppages during the course of negotiating a mine level agreement with a newly established union. During 2011, Gounkoto’s operations were disrupted by flooding following unusually heavy rains. In July 2009, the Loulo mine experienced some disruption, caused by a small group of disaffected people unable to secure long term employment at the mine. The disruption resulted in some damage to the tailings pipeline as well as to some accommodation units and other property. All operations were suspended for 36 hours, following which all mining and processing operations were restored and operating back at normal capacity. We cannot assure you that similar operational issues will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations. The use of mining contractors at certain of our operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining activities. Mining contractors are used at Tongon, Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila to mine and deliver ore to processing plants. These mining contractors rely on third-party vendors to supply them with required mining equipment, many of which have been adversely affected by the global economic slowdown. Consequently, at these mines, we do not own all of the mining equipment and may face disruption of operations and incur costs and liabilities in the event that any of the mining contractors at these mines, or any of the vendors that supply them, has financial difficulties, or should there be a dispute in renegotiating a mining contract, or a delay in replacing an existing contractor. Since the commencement of the underground operations at Yalea, in working with a mining contractor, we experienced a number of challenges which have led to delays and slower build up of production. These challenges included the availability of the underground fleet, the ability to drill and blast up holes and the contractor’s poor safety record. Following these setbacks experienced during 2009, we terminated the underground mining contract with the contractor and have assumed responsibility for underground mining at Loulo. At the beginning of 2010, we appointed a new contractor to develop the Gara underground mine, and subsequently extended their contract at the end of 2010 to include the development of the Yalea underground mine. The development and operation of the underground mine has been negatively impacted by these issues and resulting delays, and we cannot assure you that such issues are fully resolved or that we will not have future delays. Mining operations and projects are vulnerable to supply chain disruption and our operations could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as lead times to deliver fuel, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant. Our operations could be adversely affected by both shortages and long lead times to deliver fuel, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment and metallurgical plant. We have limited influence over suppliers and manufacturers of these items. In certain cases there are a limited number of suppliers for fuel, certain strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant who command superior bargaining power relative to us. We could at times face limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of such items. We cannot assure you that such limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of items will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to seek funding from the global credit and capital markets to develop our properties, and the recent weaknesses in those markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing and capital resources. We require substantial funding to develop our properties, and may be required to seek funding from the credit and capital markets to finance these activities. Our ability to obtain outside financing will depend upon the price of gold and the market’s perception of its future price, and other factors outside of our control. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms when required, or at all. 17 Table of Contents The credit and capital markets experienced serious deterioration in 2008, including the failure of significant and established financial institutions in the US and abroad, which continued throughout 2009, 2010 and 2011 and may continue in 2012 and beyond, all of which will have an impact on the availability and terms of credit and capital in the near term. The deteriorating financial condition of certain government authorities has significantly increased the potential for sovereign defaults in a number of jurisdictions, including within the European Union. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. Failure to raise capital when needed or on reasonable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to consumer spending, employment rates, inflation, fuel and energy costs, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates may affect our growth and profitability. Most of our cash deposited with banks is not insured and would be subject to the risk of bank failure. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations and additional investments in our business. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of our operations are located in countries that have and may continue to experience high rates of inflation during certain periods. It is possible that significantly higher future inflation in countries in which we operate may result in increased future operational costs in local currencies. This could have a material adverse effect upon our operations and financial conditions. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impacts of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Some of our operations are carried out in geographical areas which lack adequate infrastructure. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend, in some part, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, power sources and water supply are important factors which affect our operating costs. A lack of infrastructure or varying weather phenomena, sabotage, terrorism or other interferences in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could affect our operations and financial conditions. We may not pay dividends to shareholders in the near future. We have proposed the payment of our sixth dividend to ordinary shareholders, subject to approval by our shareholders at our AGM in May 2012. It is our policy to pay dividends if profits and funds are available for that purpose. Whether or not funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including capital expenditures. We cannot guarantee that dividends will be paid in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business may be harmed. Our ability to bring additional mineral properties into production and explore our extensive portfolio of mineral rights will depend, in large part, upon the skills and efforts of a small group of management and technical personnel, including D. Mark Bristow, our Chief Executive Officer. If we are not successful in retaining, developing or attracting highly qualified individuals in key management positions our business may be harmed. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan. 18 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy future claims against us. We may become subject to liabilities, including liabilities for pollution or other hazards, against which we have not insured adequately or at all, or cannot insure. Our insurance policies contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. Our current insurance policies provide worldwide indemnity of $100 million in relation to legal liability incurred as a result of death, injury, disease of persons and/or loss of or damage to property. Main exclusions under this insurance policy, which relates to our industry, include war, nuclear risks, silicosis, asbestosis or other fibrosis of the lungs or diseases of the respiratory system with regard to employees, and gradual pollution. In addition, our insurance policies may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against us. It may be difficult for you to affect service of process and enforce legal judgments against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands and a majority of our directors and senior executives are not residents of the United States. Virtually all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or us. Furthermore, the United States and Jersey currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Consequently, it may not be possible for you to enforce a final judgment for payment rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon United States Federal securities laws against those persons or us. In order to enforce any judgment rendered by any Federal or state court in the United States in Jersey, proceedings must be initiated by way of common law action before a court of competent jurisdiction in Jersey. The entry of an enforcement order by a court in Jersey is conditional upon the following: • that the court which pronounced the judgment has jurisdiction to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by Jersey law with reference to the jurisdiction of the foreign courts; • that the judgment is final and conclusive – it cannot be altered by the courts which pronounced it; • that there is payable pursuant to a judgment a sum of money, not being a sum payable in respect of tax or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty; • that the judgment has not been prescribed; • that the courts of the foreign country have jurisdiction in the circumstances of the case; • that the judgment was not obtained by fraud; and • that the recognition and enforcement of the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Jersey, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that documents in the United States proceeding were properly served on the defendant and that the defendant was given the right to be heard and represented by counsel in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal. Furthermore, it is doubtful whether you could bring an original action based on United States Federal securities laws in a Jersey court. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our share price. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. For example, we cannot provide assurance that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our share price could decline. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the recently enacted UK Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The compliance mechanisms and monitoring programs that we have in place may not adequately prevent or detect possible violations under applicable anti-bribery and corruption legislation. Failure to comply with such legislation could expose us to civil and criminal sanction, including fines, prosecution, potential debarment from public procurement and reputational damage, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and could cause our share price to decline. Risks Relating to Our Industry The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature, involves substantial expenditures, and is frequently unproductive. We must continually seek to replace our ore reserves depleted by production to maintain production levels over the long term. Ore reserves can be replaced by expanding known ore bodies or exploring for new deposits. Exploration for gold is highly speculative in nature. Our future growth and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to identify and acquire additional mineral rights, and on the costs and results of our continued exploration and development programs. Many exploration programs, including some of ours, do not result in the discovery of mineralization and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our mineral exploration rights may not contain commercially exploitable reserves of gold. Uncertainties as to the metallurgical recovery of any gold discovered may not warrant mining on the basis of available technology. If we discover a viable deposit, it usually takes several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. Moreover, we will use the evaluation work of professional geologists, geophysicists, and engineers for estimates in determining whether to commence or continue mining. These estimates generally rely on scientific and economic assumptions, which in some instances may not be correct, and could result in the expenditure of substantial amounts of money on a deposit before it can be determined whether or not the deposit contains economically recoverable mineralization. As a result of these uncertainties, we may not successfully acquire additional mineral rights, or identify new proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations in any of our properties. If management determines that capitalized costs associated with any of our gold interests are not likely to be recovered, we would recognize an impairment provision against the amounts capitalized for that interest. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are found not to be recoverable. Title to our mineral properties may be challenged which may prevent or severely curtail our use of the affected properties. Title to our properties may be challenged or impugned, and title insurance is generally not available. Each sovereign state is the sole authority able to grant mineral property rights, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure title to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. Our ability to obtain desirable mineral exploration projects in the future may be adversely affected by competition from other exploration companies. We compete with other mining companies in connection with the search for and acquisition of properties producing or possessing the potential to produce gold. Existing or future competition in the mining industry could materially and adversely affect our prospects for mineral exploration and success in the future. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental and environmental regulations, which could cause us to incur costs that adversely affect our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our mining facilities and operations are subject to substantial government laws and regulations, concerning mine safety, land use and environmental protection. We must comply with requirements regarding exploration operations, public safety, employee health and safety, use of explosives, air quality, water pollution, noxious odor, noise and dust controls, reclamation, solid waste, hazardous waste and wildlife as well as laws protecting the rights of other property owners and the public. Any failure on our part to be in compliance with these laws, regulations, and requirements with respect to our properties could result in us being subject to substantial penalties, fees and expenses, significant delays in our operations or even the complete shutdown of our operations. We provide for estimated environmental rehabilitation costs when the related environmental disturbance takes place. Estimates of rehabilitation costs are subject to revision as a result of future changes in regulations and cost estimates. The costs associated with compliance with government regulations may ultimately be material and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our environmental and other governmental permits are not renewed or additional conditions are imposed on our permits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Generally, compliance with environmental and other government regulations requires us to obtain permits issued by governmental agencies. Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions. We cannot predict whether we will be able to renew these permits or whether material changes in permit conditions will be imposed. Non-renewal of a permit may cause us to discontinue the operations requiring the permit, and the imposition of additional conditions on a permit may cause us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Labor disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations in West Africa are highly unionized, and strikes are legal in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, our operations are at risk of having work interrupted for indefinite periods due to industrial action, such as strikes by employee collectives. Should long disruptions take place on our operations, the results from our operations and their financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. AIDS and tropical disease outbreaks pose risks to us in terms of productivity and costs. The incidence of AIDS in the DRC, Mali, Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, which has been forecast to increase over the next decade, poses risks to us in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and insurance costs. The exact extent to which our workforce is infected is not known at present. The prevalence of AIDS in the countries in which we operate and among our workforce could become significant. Significant increases in the incidence of AIDS infection and AIDS-related diseases among members of our workforce in the future could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Malaria and other tropical diseases pose significant health risks at all of our operations in West Africa where such diseases may assume epidemic proportions. Malaria is a major cause of death and also gives rise to absenteeism in adult men. Consequently, if uncontrolled, the disease could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 