D. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, which may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares, or ADS, could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Operations The profitability of our operations, and the cash flows generated by our operations, are affected by changes in the market price for gold which in the past has fluctuated widely. Substantially all of our revenue and cash flows have come from the sale of gold. Historically, the market price for gold has fluctuated widely and has been affected by numerous factors, over which we have no control, including: •the demand for gold for investment purposes including Exchange Traded Funds, industrial uses and for use in jewelry; •international or regional political and economic trends; •the strength of the US dollar, the currency in which gold prices generally are quoted, and of other currencies; •market expectations regarding inflation rates; •interest rates; •speculative activities; •actual or expected purchases and sales of gold bullion holdings by central banks, the International Monetary Fund, or other large gold bullion holders or dealers; •hedging activities by gold producers; and •the production and cost levels for gold in major gold-producing nations. The volatility of gold prices is illustrated in the following table, which shows the approximate annual high, low and average of the afternoon London Bullion Market fixing price of gold in US dollars for the past ten years. Price Per Ounce ($) Year High Low Average 2005 537 411 444 2006 725 525 604 2007 841 608 695 2008 1,011 712 871 2009 1,213 810 972 2010 1,421 1,058 1,224 2011 1,895 1,319 1,571 2012 1,792 1,540 1,669 2013 1,694 1,192 1,411 2014 1,385 1,142 1,266 2015 (through February) 1,296 1,172 1,240 The market price of gold has been and continues to be significantly volatile. In 2014, there was a 17.5% reduction in the gold price. If gold prices should fall below and remain below our cost of production for any sustained period we may experience losses, and if gold prices should fall below our cash costs of production we may be forced to re-plan and mine higher grade ore which will have a negative impact on our reserves and life of mine plans. Low gold prices for an extended period could result in us having to curtail or suspend some or all of our mining operations. In addition, we would also have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on our ability to recover from any losses we may incur during that period and on our ability to maintain adequate reserves. Our total cash cost of production per ounce of gold sold was $698 in the year ended December 31, 2014, $715 in the year ended December 31, 2013 and $735 in the year ended December 31, 2012. - 10 - Table of Contents Our mining operations may yield less gold under actual production conditions than indicated by our gold reserve figures, which are estimates based on a number of assumptions, including assumptions as to mining and recovery factors, production costs and the price of gold. The ore reserve estimates contained in this Annual Report are estimates of the mill delivered quantity and grade of gold in our deposits. They represent the amount of gold that we believe can be mined, processed and sold at prices sufficient to recover our estimated total cash costs of production, remaining investment and anticipated additional capital expenditure. Our ore reserves are estimated based upon many factors, including: •the results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of the orebodies; •past experience with mining properties; •depletion from past mining; •mining method and associated dilution and ore loss factors; •gold price; and •operating costs. Because our ore reserve estimates are calculated based on current estimates of future production costs and gold prices, they should not be interpreted as assurances of the economic life of our gold deposits or the profitability of our future operations. Reserve estimates may require revisions based on actual production experience. Further, a sustained decline in the market price of gold may render the recovery of ore reserves containing relatively lower grades of gold mineralization uneconomical and ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. The failure of the reserves to meet our recovery expectations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in Mali that could significantly affect our mines in Mali and our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with operating gold mines in Mali. In 2014, gold produced in Mali represented approximately 60% of our consolidated group gold production, including joint ventures. On March 21, 2012, Mali was subject to an attempted coup d’état that resulted in the suspension of the constitution, the partial closing of the borders and the general disruption of business activities in the country. The supply of consumables to our mines in Mali was temporarily interrupted as a result of the political situation. The borders were reopened shortly after these events and an interim government was installed within a month. In January 2013, following military conflicts with terrorist insurgents, the Malian State requested the assistance of the French Government to assist the Malian army to repel the insurgents who had been occupying parts of the north of the country and beginning to move towards the southern part of the country. During 2013, French and other foreign troops occupied the northern part of the country to assist the Malian State in maintaining control of this region and presidential and parliamentary elections took place during the middle of 2013. Although we have continued to produce and sell gold during the political crisis, there can be no assurance that the political situation will not disrupt our ability to continue gold production, or our ability to sell and ship our gold from our mines in Mali. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political situation in Mali will not have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if the State of Mali and the State of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) fail to repay Value Added Tax (TVA), owing to the Morila, Loulo, Gounkoto and Kibali mines. Our mining companies operating in Mali are exonerated by their Establishment Conventions from paying TVA for the three years following first commercial production. After that, TVA is payable and reimbursable. During 2012, 2013 and 2014 Loulo and Morila has offset TVA reimbursements it was owed against corporate and other taxes payable to the State of Mali under the terms of its legally binding mining conventions. At December 31, 2013, TVA owed by the State of Mali to Loulo stood at $115.6 million. This amount has decreased to $91.3 million at December 31, 2014 inclusive of exchange rate variances of $12.1 million. As of December 31, 2012, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, TVA owed by the State of Mali to Morila amounted to $6.4 million (our 40%), $4.4 million (our 40%) and $10.5 million (our 40%) respectively. By December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, TVA refunds of $10.1 million and $14.5 million respectively remained owing to Gounkoto by the State of Mali. By December 31, 2012, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, TVA owing to Kibali by the DRC State amounted to $18.5 million (our 45%), $35.3 million (our 45%) and $50.5 million (our 45%), respectively. Kibali has received TVA refunds during the year, but the process has been slower than set out by law, due to additional administrative requirements imposed by the relevant State departments. - 11 - Table of Contents Our business, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected to the extent the TVA amounts owing to the group are not paid. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to resolve disputed tax claims with the State of Mali. As at December 31, 2014, the group had received claims for various taxes from the State of Mali totaling $313.0 million, in particular with respect to the Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila mines. The claims have increased by $190.0 million in the year, substantially representing $201.3 million of additional claims received in respect of Loulo and Gounkoto following the tax audits during the year, offset by foreign exchange movements. Having taken professional advice, the group considers the material claims to be without foundation and is strongly defending its position, including following the appropriate legal process for such disputes in Mali. Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila have legally binding mining conventions which guarantee fiscal stability, govern the taxes applicable for the companies and allow for international arbitration in the event that a dispute cannot be resolved in the country. Management continues to engage with the Malian authorities at the highest level to resolve this issue. On November 25, 2013, Loulo instigated arbitration proceedings against the State of Mali pursuant to the terms of Loulo’s Establishment Convention at the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes in respect of $57.0 million of the tax claims. The arbitration process is ongoing, with hearings being held in the first quarter of 2015. The outcome of the process is expected to be concluded during 2015. Management continues to engage with the Malian authorities at the highest level to resolve this issue and the other unresolved tax claims. However, it may be necessary to instigate additional arbitration proceedings to resolve these disputes. If for any reason these disputed tax claims become due and payable the results of Morila, Gounkoto and Loulo’s operations and financial position would be adversely affected, as would their ability to pay dividends to their shareholders. Accordingly, our business, cash flows and financial condition will be adversely affected if anticipated dividends are not paid. Changes in mining legislation can have significant effects on our operations. While we have entered into binding mining conventions with the governments of Côte d’Ivoire, Mali and Senegal, changes in mining legislation in the countries in which we operate could have significant adverse effects on our results of operations. In addition, changes in mining legislation may discourage future investments in these jurisdictions, which may have an adverse impact on our ability to develop new mines and reduce future growth opportunities. Among the jurisdictions in which we currently have major operations, there are several proposed or recently adopted changes in mining legislation that could materially affect us. The governments in these jurisdictions may require us to renegotiate our mining conventions. If so, there can be no assurance that the outcome of our negotiations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operational results. Our success may depend on our social and environmental performance. Our ability to operate successfully in communities will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the health, safety and well-being of our employees, the protection of the environment, and the creation of long term economic and social opportunities in the countries in which we operate. Mining companies are required to make a fair contribution and provide benefits to the communities and countries in which they operate, and are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. As a result of public concern about the real or perceived detrimental effects of economic globalization and global climate impacts, businesses generally and large multinational corporations in natural resources industries, in particular, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders, including employees, governments, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate, benefit and will continue to benefit from their commercial activities. Such pressures tend to be particularly focused on companies whose activities relate to non-renewable resources and are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage and legal suits. Certain non-governmental organizations oppose globalization and resource development and are often vocal critics of the mining industry and its practices. Adverse publicity by such non-governmental agencies could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial condition and could have an impact on the communities within which we operate. In addition, our ability to successfully obtain key permits and approvals to explore for, develop and operate mines and to successfully operate in communities around the world will likely depend on our ability to develop, operate and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the creation of social and economic benefits in the surrounding communities, which may or may not be required by law. Mining operations should be designed to minimize the negative impact on such communities and the environment, for example, by modifying mining plans and operations or by relocating those affected to an agreed location. The cost of these measures could increase capital and operating costs and therefore could have an adverse impact upon our financial conditions and operations. We seek to promote improvements in health and safety, environmental performance and community relations. However, our ability to operate could be adversely impacted by accidents or events detrimental (or perceived to be detrimental) to the health, safety and well-being of our employees, the environment or the communities in which we operate. - 12 - Table of Contents Any appreciation of the currencies in which we incur costs against the US dollar could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While our revenue is derived from the sale of gold in US dollars, a significant portion of our input costs are incurred in currencies other than the dollar, primarily Euro, Communauté Financière Africaine Franc and South African Rand. Accordingly, any appreciation in such other currencies could adversely affect our results of operations. The profitability of our operations and the cash flows generated by these operations are significantly affected by the fluctuations in the price, cost and supply of fuel and other inputs, and we would be adversely affected by future increases in the prices of fuel and other inputs. Fuel, power and consumables, including diesel, steel, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, form a relatively large part of our operating costs. The cost of these consumables is impacted to varying degrees by fluctuations in the price of oil, exchange rates and availability of supplies. Such fluctuations have a significant impact upon our operating costs and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for mining projects, new and existing, and could even render certain projects non-viable. Fuel is the primary input utilized in our mining operations, and our results are significantly affected by the price and availability of fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical factors and supply and demand. Political unrest in certain oil producing countries has in the past led to an increase in the cost of fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of fuel, or restrictions on the transport of fuel, there could be reductions in the supply of fuel and significant increases in the cost of fuel. During 2014, the average price of our landed fuel was lower than 2013. In the year ended December 31, 2014, the cost of fuel and other power generation costs comprised approximately 23% of our operating costs (2013: 20%; 2012: 25%). While we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, factors beyond our control make it impossible to predict the future availability of fuel. We are not parties to any agreements that protect us against price increases or guarantee the availability of fuel. Major reductions in the availability of fuel or significant increases in its cost for a significant period of time, would adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. Our underground mines at Loulo and Kibali are subject to all of the risks associated with underground mining. The business of underground mining by its nature involves significant risks and hazards. In particular, our underground mining operations could be subject to: •rockbursts; •seismic events; •underground fires; •cave-ins or falls of ground; •discharges of gases or toxic chemicals and other environmental hazards; •flooding; •accidents; and •other conditions resulting from drilling, blasting and the removal of material from an underground mine. We are at risk of experiencing any and all of these hazards. The occurrence of any of these hazards could delay the development of the mine, production, increase cash operating costs and result in additional financial liability for us. The use of mining contractors at certain of our operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining activities. Mining contractors are used at Tongon, Loulo, Gounkoto, Kibali and Morila to mine and deliver ore to processing plants and at Loulo and Kibali to develop the underground mine. As a result of our use of mining contractors, our operations are subject to a number of risks, some of which are outside our control, including: •Negotiating agreements with contractors on acceptable terms; •The inability to replace a contractor and its operating equipment in the event that either party terminates the agreement; •Reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of the contractor; - 13 - Table of Contents •Failure of a contractor to perform under its agreement; •Interruption of operations or increased costs in the event that a contractor ceases its business due to insolvency or other unforeseen events; •Failure of a contractor to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, to the extent it is responsible for such compliance; and •Problems of a contractor with managing its workforce, labor unrest or other employment issues. In addition, we may incur liability to third parties as a result of the actions of our contractors. The occurrence of one or more of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have reviewed the underground mining activities at the Loulo mine and decided to take over the mining and development activities previously managed by the underground mining contractor. Consequently, the Loulo mine is working with the contractor to agree to an orderly changeover, which is expected to be completed over the course of 2015. Any disruption to our workforce resulting from the changeover could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Ebola virus poses a risk to our operations. Ebola virus cases have been identified in Mali and Senegal along with epidemics in neighboring countries, and we have formed a crisis management team to spearhead a major campaign to safeguard our employees and host communities. If the incidence of the Ebola virus spreads, it could pose risks to us in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and insurance costs. An Ebola virus outbreak could cause the closing of borders of the countries in which we operate, or neighboring countries, which poses a risk in operation of our supply chain. Actual cash costs of production, production results, capital expenditure costs and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by our feasibility studies for new development projects. Feasibility studies and other project evaluation activities necessary to determine the current or future viability of a mining operation are often not economically beneficial. Activities often require substantial expenditure on exploration drilling to determine the extent and grade of mineralized material. It typically takes a number of years from initial feasibility studies of a mining project until development is completed and, during that time, the economic feasibility of production may change. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated reserves, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and future gold prices. The capital expenditure and time required to develop new mines or other projects are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. Thus it is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, there are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine, including: •the availability and timing of necessary environmental and governmental permits; •the timing and cost necessary to construct mining and processing facilities, which can be considerable; •the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and other materials; •the accessibility of transportation and other infrastructure, particularly in remote locations; and •the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. Kibali completed an optimized feasibility during 2011 and construction of the mine started in 2012. At Kibali, open pit mining started in July 2012 and the mine’s first gold was produced in September 2013. However, there can be no assurance that the mine will not be subject to the risks and uncertainties listed above, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. At Massawa (Senegal), a technical and financial study was completed on the open pit enabling us to declare mineral reserves in 2010. In 2012 it was decided to focus on understanding the geological and metallurgical controls of the project. The current plan is to progress the Massawa project review and make a decision on revising the feasibility study scope in 2015. There can be no assurance that the Massawa project will ultimately result in a new commercial mining operation, or that such new commercial mining operations would be successful. The underground feasibility study on Gounkoto was successfully completed at the end of 2014. Work on the portal in the south of the pit is planned to start in 2018 with access to ore anticipated in 2019. However, there can be no assurance that the Gounkoto underground project will not be subject to the risks and uncertainties listed in this section, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We conduct mining, development and exploration activities in countries with developing economies and are subject to the risks of political and economic instability associated with these countries. We currently conduct mining, development and exploration activities in countries with developing economies. These countries and other emerging markets in which we may conduct operations have, from time to time, experienced economic or political instability. It is difficult to predict the future political, social and economic direction of the countries in which we operate, and the impact government decisions may have on our business. Any political or economic instability in the countries in which we currently operate could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. - 14 - Table of Contents The countries of Mali, Senegal, DRC and Côte d’Ivoire have, since independence, experienced some form of political upheaval with varying forms of changes of government taking place. Goods are supplied to our operations in Mali primarily by road through Senegal and Côte d’Ivoire, which at times have been disrupted by geopolitical issues. Any present or future policy changes in the countries in which we operate, or through which we are supplied, may in some way have a significant effect on our operations and interests. The mining laws of Mali, Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal and DRC stipulate that, should an economic orebody be discovered on a property subject to an EP, a permit that allows processing operations to be undertaken must be issued to the holder. Legislation in certain countries currently provides for the relevant government to acquire a free ownership interest in any mining project. The requirements of the various governments as to the foreign ownership and control of mining companies may change in a manner which adversely affects us. In addition, unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts could disrupt our operations and disrupt the operations of our suppliers. Such events could make if difficult or impossible for us to conduct our mining operations, including delivering our products and receiving materials from suppliers. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in the DRC, and the success of the Kibali mine will depend in large part on our ability to overcome significant challenges. We are subject to risks associated with operating the Kibali mine in the DRC. The Kibali mine is located in the north-east region of the DRC and is subject to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties associated with operating in the DRC. Some of these risks include political and economic instability, high rates of inflation, severely limited infrastructure, lack of law enforcement, labor unrest, and war and civil conflict. In addition, the Kibali mine is subject to the risks inherent in operating in any foreign jurisdiction including changes in government policy, restrictions on foreign exchange, changes in taxation policies, and renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licenses, permits and contracts. The DRC is an impoverished country with physical and institutional infrastructure that is in a poor condition. It is in transition from a largely state-controlled economy to one based on free market principles, and from a non-democratic political system with a centralized ethnic power base to one based on more democratic principles. There can be no assurance that these changes will be effected or that the achievement of these objectives will not have material adverse consequences for the Kibali mine. Any changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in the DRC may adversely affect operations and/or profitability of the Kibali mine. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income taxes, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. These changes may impact the profitability and viability of the Kibali mine. Furthermore, the Kibali mine is located in a remote area of the DRC, which lacks basic infrastructure, including adequate roads and other transport, sources of power, water, housing, food and transport. In order to develop any of the mineral interests, facilities and material necessary to support operations in the remote locations in which they are situated must be established. The remoteness of the mineral interests would affect the potential viability of mining operations, as we would also need to establish substantially greater sources of power, water, physical plant, roads and other transport infrastructure than are currently present in the area. Hydropower stations are utilized at Kibali, which necessarily involve maintaining existing stations and building new hydropower stations and also obtaining certain government licenses relating to their operation. The first of three hydropower stations was completed in 2014 and a further additional two hydropower stations are still to be completed. Moreover, the north-east region of the DRC has undergone civil unrest and instability that could have an impact on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC generally. There has been recent turmoil in the Eastern DRC, to the south of Kibali, following the defeat of the M23 rebel group in late 2013. A sufficient level of stability must be maintained in order for us to continue to operate the Kibali mine. The impact of unrest and instability on political, social or economic conditions in the DRC could result in the impairment of the exploration, development and operations at the Kibali mine. We are subject to various political and economic uncertainties associated with operating in Côte d’Ivoire, that could significantly affect the success of the Tongon mine. We have been subject to risks associated with operating the Tongon mine in Côte d’Ivoire. Côte d’Ivoire has experienced several years of political disruptions, including an attempted coup d’état and civil war. A dispute over the Côte d’Ivoire presidential election in November 2010 resulted in the establishment of two rival governments and the imposition of targeted sanctions. The political impasse, however, was resolved during 2011, and while the Tongon mine continued to operate throughout the crisis, at times we were unable to ship and sell our Tongon gold production, which resulted in timing discrepancy between our gold produced and the - 15 - Table of Contents recognition of revenue from gold sales. While all our gold production was subsequently sold and the country reverted to normality, there can be no assurance that similar events may not occur in the future which would have a material adverse effect on our gold production and financial results. Our operations and financial conditions could be impacted by future political and economic instabilities. Certain factors may affect our ability to support the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment, and other assets on our consolidated statement of financial position. We review and test the carrying amount of our assets on an annual basis when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the net book value may not be recoverable. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, we prepare estimates of expected future discounted cash flows for each group of assets. Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units) for purposes of assessing impairment. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. Such cash flows are significantly affected by reserve and production estimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure to extract reserves under the approved life of mine plan. We may incur losses or lose opportunities for gains as a result of any future use of derivative instruments to protect us against low gold prices. We have from time to time used derivative instruments to protect the selling price of some of our anticipated gold production. The intended effect of our derivative transactions was to lock in a fixed sale price for some of our future gold production to provide some protection against a subsequent fall in gold prices. Although we currently do not use derivative instruments to protect us against low gold prices at our operations, we may in the future determine to implement the use of derivatives in connection with a portion of our anticipated gold production. Derivative transactions can result in a reduction in revenue if the instrument price is less than the market price at the time the hedged sales are recognized. Moreover, our decision to enter into a given instrument would be based upon market assumptions. If these assumptions are not ultimately met, significant losses or lost opportunities for significant gains may result. In all, the use of these instruments may result in significant losses which would prevent us from realizing the positive impact of any subsequent increase in the price of gold on the portion of production covered by the instrument. Under our joint venture agreements with AngloGold Ashanti Limited, or AngloGold Ashanti, we operate the Morila mine and the Kibali mine by means of a joint venture committee, and any disputes with AngloGold Ashanti over the management of the Morila mine or the Kibali mine could adversely affect our business. We jointly control Morila, the owner of the Morila mine, and Kibali, the owner of the Kibali mine, with AngloGold Ashanti under joint venture agreements. We are responsible for the day-to-day operations of Morila and Kibali, subject to the overall management control of Morila and Kibali boards, respectively. Substantially all major management decisions, including approval of a budget for the Morila mine and the Kibali mine, must be approved by the Morila and Kibali boards, respectively. We and AngloGold Ashanti retain equal representation on the boards, with neither party holding a deciding vote. If a dispute arises between us and AngloGold Ashanti with respect to the management of Morila or Kibali, and we are unable to amicably resolve the dispute, we may have to participate in arbitration or other proceedings to resolve the dispute, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our mines and projects face many risks related to their present or future operations that may impact cash flows and profitability. Our mines and projects are subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for, developing and operating mineral properties and mines, such as: •encountering unusual or unexpected formations; •environmental pollution; •mechanical breakdowns; •safety-related stoppages; •work stoppages or other disruptions in labor force; •electrical power and fuel supply interruptions; •unanticipated ground conditions; and •personal injury and flooding. - 16 - Table of Contents During 2011, Tongon’s operations were negatively impacted by flooding as a result of the rainy season and by problems encountered during the change-over from diesel generated power to Côte d’Ivoire’s national grid. Also, in November 2011, the Tongon mine suffered a major failure of the barring gear at its No 1 mill. As a result, management also shut down Tongon’s No 2 mill as well in the interests of personal safety and to protect the No 2 mill from a similar failure. In November 2011 and March 2012, the Tongon mine experienced temporary work stoppages during the course of negotiating a mine level agreement with a newly established union. During 2012 the Tongon mine was plagued by a series of operational challenges, including underperformance in the mining of the open pit as the mine struggled to manage the transition from softer oxide material to fresh rock. Also, the mine experienced frequent outages of grid power which disrupted the processing plant. Additionally, during December 2012 there was a fire in the milling circuits which resulted in both mills being offline for one week followed by lower throughput and recoveries. These issues led to gold production at Tongon missing its target by 26%. The plant was restored to full production by the end of January 2013 and the power problems were addressed during 2013. The mine continued to experience problems with recovery in 2013 and 2014 which contributed to Tongon missing its target by 17% in 2013 and 13% in 2014, as well as issues associated with the crushing circuit, which required certain of the installed crushers to be replaced in 2014. The mine continues to engineer out key process deficiencies and improve operator skills and plant maintenance. Upgrades to the flotation circuits at the mine are forecasting for completion in the first quarter of 2015. During 2011, the Gounkoto’s mine operations were disrupted by flooding following unusually heavy rains. In July 2009, the Loulo mine experienced some disruption, caused by a small group of disaffected people unable to secure long term employment at the mine. The disruption resulted in some damage to the tailings pipeline as well as to some accommodation units and other property. All operations were suspended for 36 hours, following which all mining and processing operations were restored and operating back at normal capacity. There can be no assurance that similar operational issues will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations. Mining operations and projects are vulnerable to supply chain disruption and our operations could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as lead times to deliver fuel, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant. Our operations could be adversely affected by both shortages and long lead times to deliver fuel, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment and metallurgical plant. We have limited influence over suppliers and manufacturers of these items. In certain cases there are a limited number of suppliers for fuel, certain strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant who command superior bargaining power relative to us. We could at times face limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of such items. There can be no assurance that such limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of items will not happen in the future, or that such events will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Corruption (Jersey) Law and the UK Bribery Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We could suffer losses from corrupt or fraudulent business practices. We abide by the provisions of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Corruption (Jersey) Law and the UK Bribery Act, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The compliance mechanisms and monitoring programs that we have in place may not adequately prevent or detect possible violations under applicable anti-bribery and corruption legislation. There can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees or agents. As such, our corporate policies and processes may not prevent all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. Failure to comply with such legislation may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, including fines, prosecution, potential debarment from public procurement and reputational damage, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents may fail to comply with other applicable laws. We may be required to seek funding from the global credit and capital markets to develop our properties, and weakness in those markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing and capital resources. We require substantial funding to develop our properties, and may be required to seek funding from the credit and capital markets to finance these activities. Our ability to obtain outside financing will depend upon the price of gold and the market’s perception of its future price, and other factors outside of our control. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms when required, or at all. The credit and capital markets experienced serious deterioration in 2008, including the failure of significant and established financial institutions in the US and abroad, which continued throughout 2014 and may continue in 2015 and beyond, and the - 17 - Table of Contents conditions in these markets have continued to be difficult since then and may continue to be difficult in the future, which could have an impact on the availability and terms of credit and capital in the near term. Although general global economic conditions have improved, the credit and capital markets for commodities have not improved to the same degree. The deteriorating financial condition of certain government authorities has significantly increased the potential for sovereign defaults in a number of jurisdictions, including within the European Union. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. Failure to raise capital when needed or on reasonable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to consumer spending, employment rates, inflation, fuel and energy costs, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates and tax rates may affect our growth and profitability. To ensure additional liquidity, in 2013 we entered into a $200.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with HSBC and a syndicate of three other banks. In 2014 we cancelled the existing credit facility, which was undrawn at that time, and entered into a new $400.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with HSBC and an extended banking syndicate. If any of the lenders are unable to fulfill their future commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If we draw down on our credit facility, our indebtedness could adversely impact our business. Under the terms of the credit facility we entered into in 2014 we are obligated to meet certain financial and other covenants. Our ability to meet these covenants and to service our debt (should the credit facility be drawn down) will depend on our future financial performance which will be affected by our operating performance as well as by financial and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our operations are located in countries where tax laws and policies may change rapidly and unpredictably and such changes and policies may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to adapt to changes in tax regimes and regulations in the countries in which we operate may result in fines, financial losses and have a negative impact on our corporate reputation. In addition, if we fail to react to tax notifications from authorities, we could incur financial losses or the seizure of our assets. If we are unable to enforce existing tax legislation or incorrectly applied tax legislation, we may pursue arbitration or other proceedings to resolve the matter, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations. Most of our cash deposited with banks is not insured and would be subject to the risk of bank failure. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits. The loss of our deposits would reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations and additional investments in our business, and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The SEC has adopted rules that may affect mining operations in the DRC. The SEC adopted final rules pursuant to the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) regarding disclosure on potential conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured by a company that files reports with the SEC. Under the final rules, an issuer that mines conflict minerals, such as Randgold, is not deemed to be manufacturing or contracting to manufacture those minerals, unless the issuer also engages in manufacturing, whether directly or indirectly through contract. Though we are not subject to the disclosure requirements of the final rules, we may be called upon by other entities we contract with to provide information to them for their own supply-chain due diligence investigations. This may result in the increased cost of demonstrating compliance in connection with the sale of gold emanating from the DRC and its neighbors. The complexities of the gold supply chain, especially as they relate to ‘scrap’ or recycled gold, and the fragmented and often unregulated supply of artisanal and small-scale mined gold are such that there may be significant uncertainties at each stage in the chain as to the origin of the gold, and as a result of uncertainties in the process, the costs of due diligence and audit, or the reputational risks of defining their product or a constituent part as containing a ‘conflict mineral’ may be too burdensome for the buyers of our gold. Accordingly, they may decide to switch supply sources. This could have a material negative impact on the gold industry, our relationship with the buyers of our gold, and our financial results. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of our operations are located in countries that have and may continue to experience high rates of inflation during certain periods. It is possible that significantly higher future inflation in countries in which we operate may result in increased future operational costs in local currencies. This could have a material adverse effect upon our operations and financial conditions. - 18 - Table of Contents Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impacts of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Some of our operations are carried out in geographical areas which lack adequate infrastructure. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend, in some part, on adequate infrastructure. Reliable roads, power sources and water supply are important factors which affect our operating costs. A lack of infrastructure or varying weather phenomena, sabotage, terrorism or other interferences in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could affect our operations and financial conditions. Establishing infrastructure for our development projects requires significant resources, identification of adequate sources of raw materials and supplies, and necessary cooperation from national and regional governments, none of which can be assured. We may not pay dividends to shareholders in the future. We paid our eighth dividend to ordinary shareholders in 2014. It is our policy to pay dividends if profits and funds are available for that purpose. Whether or not funds are available depends on a variety of factors, including capital expenditure. We cannot guarantee that dividends will be paid in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel our business may be harmed. Our ability to bring additional mineral properties into production and explore our extensive portfolio of mineral rights will depend, in large part, upon the skills and efforts of a small group of management and technical personnel, including D. Mark Bristow, our Chief Executive Officer. If we are not successful in retaining, developing or attracting highly qualified individuals in key management positions our business may be harmed. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan. Our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy future claims against us. We may become subject to liabilities, including liabilities for pollution or other hazards, against which we have not insured adequately or at all, or cannot insure. Our insurance policies contain exclusions and limitations on coverage. Our current insurance policies provide worldwide indemnity of $100.0 million in relation to legal liability incurred as a result of death, injury, disease of persons and/or loss of or damage to property. Main exclusions under this insurance policy, which relates to our industry, include war, nuclear risks, silicosis, asbestosis or other fibrosis of the lungs or diseases of the respiratory system with regard to employees, and gradual pollution. In addition, our insurance policies may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums. As a result, in the future our insurance coverage may not cover the extent of claims against us. It may be difficult for you to effect service of process and enforce legal judgments against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands and a majority of our directors and senior executives are not residents of the United States. Virtually all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or us. Furthermore, the United States and Jersey currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Consequently, it may not be possible for you to enforce a final judgment for payment rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon United States Federal securities laws against those persons or us. - 19 - Table of Contents In order to enforce any judgment rendered by any Federal or state court in the United States in Jersey, proceedings must be initiated by way of common law action before a court of competent jurisdiction in Jersey. The entry of an enforcement order by a court in Jersey is conditional upon the following: •that the court which pronounced the judgment has jurisdiction to entertain the case according to the principles recognized by Jersey law with reference to the jurisdiction of the foreign courts; •that the judgment is final and conclusive – it cannot be altered by the courts which pronounced it; •that there is payable pursuant to a judgment a sum of money, not being a sum payable in respect of tax or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty; •that the judgment has not been prescribed; •that the courts of the foreign country have jurisdiction in the circumstances of the case; •that the judgment was not obtained by fraud; and •that the recognition and enforcement of the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Jersey, including observance of the rules of natural justice which require that documents in the United States proceeding were properly served on the defendant and that the defendant was given the right to be heard and represented by counsel in a free and fair trial before an impartial tribunal. Furthermore, it is doubtful whether you could bring an original action based on United States Federal securities laws in a Jersey court. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our share price. As a publicly traded company we are subject to a significant body of regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. For example, there can be no assurance that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our share price could decline. We utilize information technology and communications systems, the failure of which could significantly impact our operations and business. We are dependent upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to information technology systems and network disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain global information technology and communication networks and applications to support our business activities. Information technology security processes may not prevent future malicious actions, denial-of-service attacks, or fraud, resulting in corruption of operating systems, theft of commercially sensitive data, misappropriation of funds and business and operational disruption. Material system breaches and failures could result in significant interruptions that could in turn affect our operating results and reputation. Risks Relating to Our Industry The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative in nature, involves substantial expenditures, and is frequently unproductive. We must continually seek to replace our ore reserves depleted by production to maintain production levels over the long term. Ore reserves can be replaced by expanding known orebodies or exploring for new deposits. Exploration for gold is highly speculative - 20 - Table of Contents in nature. Our future growth and profitability will depend, in part, on our ability to identify and acquire additional mineral rights, and on the costs and results of our continued exploration and development programs. Many exploration programs, including some of ours, do not result in the discovery of mineralization and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our mineral exploration rights may not contain commercially exploitable reserves of gold. Uncertainties as to the metallurgical recovery of any gold discovered may not warrant mining on the basis of available technology. If we discover a viable deposit, it usually takes several years from the initial phases of exploration until production is possible. During this time, the economic feasibility of production may change. Moreover, we will use the evaluation work of professional geologists, geophysicists, and engineers for estimates in determining whether to commence or continue mining. These estimates generally rely on scientific and economic assumptions, which in some instances may not be correct, and could result in the expenditure of substantial amounts of money on a deposit before it can be determined whether or not the deposit contains economically recoverable mineralization. As a result of these uncertainties, we may not successfully acquire additional mineral rights, or identify new proven and probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations in any of our properties. If management determines that capitalized costs associated with any of our gold interests are not likely to be recovered, we would recognize an impairment provision against the amounts capitalized for that interest. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are found not to be recoverable. Title to our mineral properties may be challenged which may prevent or severely curtail our use of the affected properties. Title to our properties may be challenged or impugned, and title insurance is generally not available. Each sovereign state is the sole authority able to grant mineral property rights, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure title to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. Our ability to obtain desirable mineral exploration projects in the future may be adversely affected by competition from other exploration companies. We compete with other mining companies in connection with the search for and acquisition of properties producing or possessing the potential to produce gold. Existing or future competition in the mining industry could materially and adversely affect our prospects for mineral exploration and success in the future. In addition, we compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives, skilled labor, contractors and other employees. We also compete with other mining companies for specialized equipment, components and supplies necessary for exploration and development, as well as for rights to mine properties. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees, obtain the services of skilled personnel and contractors or specialized equipment or supplies, or acquire additional rights to mine properties, our competitive position or results of operations could be adversely impacted. Artisanal mining can disrupt our business and expose us to liability. Artisanal miners are active on, or adjacent to, many of our properties. Artisanal mining is associated with a number of negative impacts, including environmental degradation, human rights abuse and funding of conflict. We do not purchase any gold from artisanal miners. There is a misconception that artisanally-mined gold is channeled through large-scale mining operators and such misconceptions have a negative impact on the reputation of the mining industry. The activities of illegal miners could cause damage to our properties, including pollution, underground fires, or personal injury or death. We could potentially be held responsible. Illegal mining and theft could result in lost gold reserves, mine stoppages, and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental and environmental regulations, which could cause us to incur costs that adversely affect our results of operations. Our mining facilities and operations are subject to substantial government laws and regulations, concerning mine safety, land use and environmental protection. We must comply with requirements regarding exploration operations, public safety, employee health and safety, use of explosives, air quality, water pollution, noxious odor, noise and dust controls, reclamation, solid waste, hazardous waste and wildlife as well as laws protecting the rights of other property owners and the public. Any failure on our part to be in compliance with these laws, regulations, and requirements with respect to our properties could result in us being subject to substantial penalties, fees and expenses, significant delays in our operations or even the complete shutdown of our operations. We provide for estimated environmental rehabilitation costs when the related environmental disturbance takes place. Estimates of rehabilitation costs are subject to revision as a result of future changes in regulations and cost estimates. The costs associated with compliance with government regulations may ultimately be material and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. - 21 - Table of Contents If our environmental and other governmental permits are not renewed or additional conditions are imposed on our permits, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Generally, compliance with environmental and other government regulations requires us to obtain permits issued by governmental agencies. Some permits require periodic renewal or review of their conditions. We cannot predict whether we will be able to renew these permits or whether material changes in permit conditions will be imposed. Non-renewal of a permit may cause us to discontinue the operations requiring the permit, and the imposition of additional conditions on a permit may cause us to incur additional compliance costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Labor disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are highly unionized, and strikes are legal in the countries in which we operate. Therefore, our operations are at risk of having work interrupted for indefinite periods due to industrial action, such as strikes by employee collectives. Should long disruptions take place on our operations, the results from our operations and their financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. AIDS and tropical disease outbreaks pose risks to us in terms of productivity and costs. The incidence of AIDS in the DRC, Mali, Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, which has been forecast to increase over the next decade, poses risks to us in terms of potentially reduced productivity and increased medical and insurance costs. The exact extent to which our workforce is infected is not known at present. The prevalence of AIDS in the countries in which we operate and among our workforce could become significant. Significant increases in the incidence of AIDS infection and AIDS-related diseases among members of our workforce in the future could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. Malaria and other tropical diseases pose significant health risks at all of our operations in West Africa and Central Africa where such diseases may assume epidemic proportions. Malaria is a major cause of death and also gives rise to absenteeism in employees and contractors. Consequently, if uncontrolled, the disease could adversely impact our operations and financial condition. 