D. Risk factors Prospective investors and shareholders should be aware that any investment in the Company involves a degree of risk and should be made only by those with the necessary expertise to appraise the investment. In addition to the other information in this document, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating whether to make or 8 hold an investment in the Company. Any or all of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s operational results, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, the trading price of ChemGenex shares could decline resulting in the loss of all or part of any investment therein. The Company has a history of operating losses and negative cash flow and may never become profitable ChemGenex is a company that has a history of operating losses. These losses have arisen mainly from the costs incurred in research and development of its products and general administrative costs. For the year ended June 30, 2006, the Company’s net loss was A$10,369,719 and its accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2006 was A$81,023,002. The Company expects to continue to incur operating losses over the next two years and may never be profitable. To date, the Company has generated revenues through research and development funding from its partners, milestone payments and contract research. In order to support the research and development of the Company’s business, the Company plans to incur expenses in excess of revenue. The Company’s strategy is to utilize its understanding of the genetics of complex diseases and its expertise in medicinal chemistry to identify novel targets for therapeutic intervention and to develop personalized medicines particularly in the field of cancer. The discovery of novel gene and protein targets and the subsequent development of therapeutic products based on these targets is an expensive process and the Company has in the past partnered its discovery programs in diabetes and obesity and in depression with international pharmaceutical companies. The Company’s cancer program has led to the development of two therapeutic agents that are currently in clinical trial in the U.S. The Company may not develop any products and any other products it may develop may not generate revenues. Additional funding is likely to be required to give the Company time to reach profitability. Raising such additional funding could entail restrictions on the rights of holders of ordinary shares. If the Company is unable to raise additional funds it may have to curtail its operations. The Company’s need for capital at any given time depends on a number of factors, including: · the ability to enter collaborations to support its research and development programs; · the amount, and timing, of milestone payments the Company receives from its collaborators; · the rate of progress and cost of the Company’s research activities; · the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; · the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals for the Company’s products; · the emergence of competing products and other adverse market development; and · changes in, or termination of, the Company’s existing collaboration and licensing arrangements. The Company may not receive further revenues from collaboration and licensing agreements or changes in the development of the Company’s drug candidates may cause available capital resources to be used more quickly than expected. The Company is likely in the future to require additional funds, in addition to funds received from licensing and collaboration agreements, to continue research and development. It is likely that the Company will seek funds through further licensing and collaboration agreements and through additional sale of the Company’s securities. The Company may not be able to secure licensing and collaboration agreements on satisfactory terms, if at all. Also, the public markets for issues of biotechnology company securities are volatile and competitive. The Company may not be able to attract additional funds on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company also may decide to access the public equity markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if the Company does not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. If the Company raises additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to shareholders may result. This might be the case, for example, because U.S. investors may not be able to participate in certain fund raising, such as rights offerings, under applicable securities laws and may therefore be diluted. Other shareholders may not have the means to exercise their rights in such an offering, and will see their interests diluted, and the price at which any further capital raising is made also may be below the price at which other investors acquired their shares. 9 If adequate funds are not available, the Company may have to significantly reduce its research and development programs or obtain funds through licensing and collaboration agreements at an earlier stage in the drugs’ development than the Company envisaged. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, its ability to invest in the progress of its development programs and product portfolio will be materially and adversely affected, with the result that its prospects are less favorable. Following the issue of 36,565,170 shares at A$0.43 cents each on May/June of 2006 ChemGenex had working capital of approximately A$14 million. Based on the anticipated cash flow requirements of the Company’s existing research and development activities, the Board has concluded that these funds should be sufficient to support operations into the second half of calendar 2007. The Board remains confident that adequate funds to continue the Company’s operations will be raised from partnership agreements and/or equity placements as required in the future. The Company anticipates a net loss in fiscal 2007. If the Company is unable to retain and attract key employees, its scientific and management capabilities could be reduced. The loss of key employees could weaken the Company’s scientific and management capabilities, resulting in delays in the development of its cancer clinical trials and broader research programs thus impacting negatively on the Company’s business. ChemGenex is significantly dependent on certain scientific and management personnel, including Dr. Gregory R. Collier, Dr. Dennis M. Brown, Dr. James A. Campbell, Eric P. Merrigan, Tina Herbert, Dr. Kenneth R. Walder, and Dr. John Blangero. Although the Company has entered into employment or consultancy arrangements with each of the Company’s key personnel with the aim of securing their services, the retention of such services cannot be guaranteed. Companies such as ChemGenex are highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of their companies’ technologies, products, programs, collaborative relationships and strategic goals. The loss of these key employees and the Company’s inability to recruit new employees to replace them could have a negative impact on the business and prospects of the Company because the Company’s scientific and management capabilities would be reduced. The Company is dependent on its academic collaborators, consultants and scientific advisors and their confidentiality. The Company has relationships with collaborators and consultants at academic and other scientific institutions who conduct research under contractually defined terms at the Company’s request. It is the Company’s policy that all of its employees, academic collaborators, consultants and scientific advisors enter into confidentiality agreements that control the dissemination of all intellectual property produced that results from their work for the Company. It is possible; however, that unauthorized dissemination of such confidential information could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Such collaborators also could enter into employment agreements or consulting arrangements with competitors. The Company may not be successful in its clinical trials programs. These programs are costly, time consuming and of uncertain outcome. If such programs are not successful, the Company may invest substantial amounts of time and money without developing revenue-producing products. Clinical trials of promising products can take years, the duration depending among other factors on type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. The Company may fail to successfully complete clinical trials and bring products to market for a number of reasons, including: · as the Company enters a more extensive clinical program in several different diseases, the data generated in these studies may not be as compelling as the earlier results; · unforeseen safety issues or side effects; · variability in the number and types of patients available for each study, and difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; 10 · delays resulting from review board action at institutions assisting the Company with its clinical trials; and · the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. If the products that the Company brings to market are not commercially successful, the Company’s liquidity may be adversely affected. The Company’s success depends on acceptance of the Company’s products by the market, including physicians and third-party payers, and consequently the Company’s liquidity and viability as a going concern may be adversely affected if it is unable to achieve market acceptance of its products. Factors that may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of any of the Company’s products include: · the existence or entry onto the market of superior competing products or therapies; · the price of the Company’s products compared to competing products; · public perception regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of the Company’s products compared to competing products or therapies; · the effectiveness of the Company’s sales and marketing efforts and those of the Company’s marketing partners; · regulatory developments related to manufacturing or use of the Company’s products; · the willingness of physicians to adopt a new treatment regimen; and · publicity concerning the product type in general. Even if the Company’s products are approved, they may still face later regulatory difficulties, which could impair its ability to market its products or force it to incur substantial additional expenses. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval to sell any of its products, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Australian Therapeutics Goods Administration or comparable foreign regulatory agencies could require the Company to conduct post-marketing trials to further evaluate safety and efficacy or could prevent the Company from using the labeling claims which the Company would like to use to promote its products. Regulators will undertake periodic reviews and inspections. If they discover previously unknown problems with a product or its manufacturing facility or if the Company fails to comply with regulatory requirements, regulators could: · impose fines against the Company; · impose restrictions on the product, its manufacturer, or the Company; · require the Company to recall or remove a product from the market; · suspend or withdraw its regulatory approvals; · require the Company to conduct additional clinical trials; · require the Company to change its product labeling; or · require the Company to submit additional marketing applications. If any of these events occur, the Company’s ability to sell its products will be impaired and the Company may incur substantial additional expense to comply with the regulatory requirements. In addition, in certain countries, even after regulatory approval, the Company is still required to obtain price reimbursement approval. This may delay the marketing of the Company’s products or, when approval cannot be obtained, mean that the product cannot be sold at all. 11 If the Company is unable to keep pace with technological change or with the advances of its competitors, its technology and products may become obsolete or non-competitive. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid technological change which could affect the success of the Company’s drugs or make them obsolete. The field of biotechnology is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Research and discoveries by others may result in medical insights or breakthroughs which render the Company’s drug candidates less competitive or even obsolete before they generate revenue. The Company’s business faces intense competition from major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology companies engaged in the development of drugs directed at the conditions and disorders that are the focus of the Company’s therapeutics programs. As a result its competitors may be able to establish superior proprietary positions. The Company’s competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior research and development capabilities, drugs, manufacturing capability or marketing expertise. Many of the Company’s competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources and may have more experience in research and development. As a result, the Company’s competitors may develop safer or more effective drugs, or implement more effective sales and marketing programs or be able to establish superior proprietary positions. In addition, the Company anticipates that it will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the Company’s markets and alternative drugs become available. The Company’s products under development are expected to address a broad range of markets including, but not limited to anti-cancer drugs for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (“CML”) and other forms of leukemia, prostate cancer and other solid tumors, Type 2 diabetes, obesity and depression. The Company’s competitive position will be determined in part by the potential indications for which the Company’s products are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. The relative speed with which the Company or its collaborative partners can develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market, are expected to be important competitive factors. The Company’s competitors may be developing products that could compete with the products the Company is developing. The Company and its collaborators will need to persuade patients and physicians to adopt its products over its competitors’ products. In the field of cancer therapeutics the Company faces intense competition from major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biotechnology companies engaged in the development of product candidates and other therapeutic products. Several of these companies have products in the same indications or utilize similar technologies and/or personalized medicine techniques. In June 2006 the FDA approved the release of Sprycel® (dasatinib), a drug for Gleevec®-resistant CML developed and commercialized by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Novartis is also developing Nilotinib® (AMN-107) a new drug that targets Gleevec®-resistant CML ’ Significantly, neither Sprycel® nor Nilotinib® have demonstrated efficacy against the T315I bcr-abl mutation, and it is this sub-set of resistant CML patients that are being targeted by the Company for initial approval. Supergen has ongoing Phase 2 studies with decitabine in CML. Xanthus Life Sciences is currently conducting a Phase 2 study with amonafide malate (listed as an example product candidate – Refer Item 4B. Business Overview – ChemGenex’s development pipeline) in acute myeloid leukemia. The previous list is indicative only, and there may be other competitive trials or technologies elsewhere in the world. Additionally, many of the Company’s competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies, have greater financial and human resources and more experience than the Company does. In the fields of Diabetes, Obesity and Depression therapeutics the Company faces competition from several internationally-regarded genomics and target discovery companies that are active in the search for new potent therapeutics against these diseases. Companies such as DeCode Genetics, Curagen Corporation and Exelixis are applying different proprietary technologies to the search for novel targets. If the healthcare industry limits coverage or reimbursement levels, the acceptance of the Company’s products could suffer. It may not be able to sell its drug profitably. The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare facilities. During the past several years, the healthcare industry 12 has been subject to increased government regulation of reimbursement rates and capital expenditures. Among other things, third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain or reduce healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and levels of reimbursement for healthcare products and procedures. Cost control policies of third party payers, including government agencies, may adversely affect acceptance and use of the Company’s product line. If the Company is unable to successfully establish and protect its intellectual property, which is significant to the Company’s competitive position, its competitors may be able to take advantage of its research and development efforts. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to obtain and maintain protection for its inventions and proprietary information, so that it can stop others from making, using or selling its inventions or proprietary rights. The Company owns a portfolio of patents and patent applications. There is a significant delay between the time of filing of a patent application and the time its contents are made public, and others may have filed patent applications for subject matter covered by the Company’s pending patent applications without the Company being aware of those applications. The Company’s patent applications may not have priority over patent applications of others and its pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if the Company obtains patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against others. Moreover, even if the Company receives patent protection for some or all of its products, those patents may not give the Company an advantage over competitors with similar products. To develop and maintain its competitive position, the Company also relies on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation, which it protects with security measures it considers to be reasonable, including confidentiality agreements with its collaborators, consultants and employees. The Company may not have adequate remedies if these agreements are breached and the Company’s competitors may independently develop any of this proprietary information. If the Company fails to obtain adequate protection for its intellectual property, the Company’s competitors may be able to take advantage of the Company’s research and development efforts. The Company’s success will depend, in large part, on its ability to obtain and maintain patent or other proprietary protection for its technologies in general and, in particular, drugs and processes. The Company may not be able to obtain patent protection for the use of certain drug compounds, processes developed by its employees or medical uses of compounds discovered through its technology. Legal standards relating to patents covering pharmaceutical or biotechnological inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents are still developing. There is no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. The Company’s patent position is therefore uncertain and involves complex legal and factual issues. This risk factor is one that faces many companies in the biotechnology industry and the Company is not aware of any Company-specific risks. The Company may incur substantial costs as a result of disputes relating to intellectual property. The Company may have to initiate litigation to enforce its patent and license rights. If the Company’s competitors file patent applications that claim technology also claimed by the Company, the Company may have to participate in interference or opposition proceedings to determine the priority of invention. An adverse outcome could subject the Company to significant liabilities and require the Company either to cease using a technology or to pay license fees. The Company could incur substantial costs in any litigation or other proceeding relating to patent rights, even if it is resolved in the Company’s favor. Some of the Company’s competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex litigation more effectively or for a longer time than the Company can because of their substantially greater resources. In addition, uncertainties relating to any patent, pending patent or intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to bring a technology to market, enter into collaborations in respect of the disputed or other technologies, or raise additional funds. The Company may not be able to bring any of the drug candidates it is developing to market. Development of drug candidates involves a lengthy and complex process. Any drug candidate that the Company seeks to offer commercially to the public must be put through extensive research, development and pre-clinical and clinical testing which will be costly to the Company. This development process takes several years. In addition, the 13 Company or its partners will need to obtain regulatory approvals to conduct clinical trials and manufacture drugs before they can be marketed. Results of pre-clinical studies are not necessarily indicative of results that may be obtained in clinical trials and results in early clinical trials may be different from those obtained in long-term testing or in general use. Adverse or inconclusive results from pre-clinical testing or clinical trials may substantially delay, or halt entirely, the development of products. The Company may fail to successfully develop a drug candidate for many reasons, including: · the failure to establish any collaborative third party agreements to support drug development; · the failure to produce a promising compound in sufficient quantities to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture the compound at commercially acceptable quantities and prices; · the failure of the drug in pre-clinical studies; · the inability of clinical trials to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective in humans; or · the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals. ChemGenex Pharmaceuticals Limited shares may fluctuate in value. The market price for ChemGenex Pharmaceuticals Limited shares and the securities of other similar companies have been volatile. Factors that could significantly impact the market price of ChemGenex Pharmaceuticals Limited shares in the future other than those described elsewhere in this Annual Report include: · announcements concerning research activities, technological innovations, clinical trials or financial results by the Company or its competitors; · termination of collaborations by the Company or its partners; · governmental regulatory initiatives; · the FDA, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration or European Medicines Evaluation Agency approving or denying new applications; · patent or proprietary rights developments; · public concern as to the safety or ethical implications of biotechnology products; · sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s shares by existing shareholders; · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large that do not relate to the Company’s operating performance; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, comments by securities analysts, or the Company’s failure to meet analysts’ expectation; · actual or anticipated variations in periodic operating results; · new products or services introduced or announced by the Company or its competitors; · changes in the market valuations of other similar companies; · announcements by the Company of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and · additions or departures of key personnel. 14 The Company’s products may not receive and maintain regulatory approval. The complexity and multi-jurisdictional nature of the applicable regulatory processes could result in delays in achieving such regulatory approval, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial conditions, its programs and projected revenues. The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., Australia and Europe and by regulatory agencies in other countries where the Company intends to market products it may develop. National regulatory authorities administer a wide range of laws and regulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of drugs and also review the quality, safety and effectiveness of such products. These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether a technology can be developed into a marketable clinical application or a specific product and the amount of time and expense associated with such development. Government regulation imposes significant costs and restrictions on the development of pharmaceutical products for human use, including those the Company is developing. The development, clinical evaluation, manufacture and marketing of the Company’s products and ongoing research and development activities are subject to regulation by governments and regulatory agencies in all territories within which the Company intends to manufacture and market its products (whether themselves or through a partner). The Company’s products may not successfully complete the clinical trial process. Similarly, regulatory approvals to manufacture and market the Company’s products may not ultimately be obtained. The time taken to obtain regulatory approval varies between countries. The Company’s products may not be approved in any country within the timescale envisaged, or at all. This may result in a delay, or make impossible, the commercialization of its products. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements (for instance, by restricting the product’s indicated uses) and may refuse to grant, or may require additional data before granting, an approval, even though the relevant product candidate may have been approved by another country’s authority. If regulatory approval is obtained, the product and its manufacture will be subject to continual review and this approval may be withdrawn or restricted. Changes in applicable legislation or regulatory policies, or discovery of problems with the product, or its production process, site or manufacturer, may result in the imposition of restrictions on the product, its sale, manufacture or use, including withdrawal of the product from the market, or may otherwise have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and financial condition. The Company has not had any of its product candidates receive approval for commercialization in Australia, the U.S. or elsewhere. The Company may be unable to secure adequate insurance at an acceptable cost. Failure to secure such insurance may expose the Company to liability in the event of a claim. The Company’s business exposes it to potential product liability, professional indemnity and other risks which are inherent in the research and development, pre-clinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of pharmaceutical products. The Company in carrying out its activities will potentially face contractual and statutory claims, or other types of claims. Consumers, healthcare producers or persons selling products based on the Company’s technology may be able to bring claims against the Company based on the use of such products in clinical trials and the sale of products based on the Company’s technology. The Company is insured for product liability with a policy covering US$2,000,000 that covers bodily injury or property damage arising out of the Company’s products used in the regular course of the clinical trials. The policy was recently renewed for the period from October 1, 2006 to May 1, 2007. The Company also carries directors’ and officers’ liability policies in the U.S. and Australia, with coverage of A$10,000,000, and customary employer’s liability, fiduciary liability and property insurance coverages in amounts that are considered usual for similarly situated companies. Product liability or any future necessary insurance cover may not be available to the Company at an acceptable cost, if at all, and if there is any claim, the level of the insurance the Company carries now or in the future may not be adequate. Similarly, a product liability, professional indemnity or other claim may materially and adversely affect the Company’s liquidity or its ability to continue to progress its product development. In addition, it may be necessary for the Company to secure certain levels of insurance as a condition to the conduct of clinical trials. In the event of any claim, the Company’s insurance coverage may not be adequate. 15 The Company may face product liability claims. The testing, marketing and sale of human health care products entails an inherent risk of product liability. The Company in carrying out its activities will potentially face contractual and statutory claims, or other types of claim. In addition, the Company is exposed to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the research and development, pre-clinical study, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of medical devices and drug products. Consumers, healthcare producers or persons selling products based on the Company’s technology may be able to bring claims against the Company based on the use of such products in clinical trials and the sale of products based on the Company’s technology. The Company may be subject to special interest groups and adverse public opinion. Government bodies and regulatory agencies require that potential pharmaceutical products are subject to pre-clinical studies, including animal testing, prior to conducting human trials. ChemGenex arranges for such work either directly or through its collaborators. While the Company has not been subject to the attention of special interest groups, or any adverse public opinion of which it is aware, such work entails the risk of adverse public opinion and the attention of special interest groups, including those of animal rights activists. These groups may in the future focus on the Company’s activities or those of its licensees or collaborators, and this might adversely affect the Company’s operations, by requiring it to curtail its activities or to change its testing procedures. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are frequently subject to adverse publicity on many topics, including corporate governance or accounting issues, product recalls and research and discovery methods, as well as political controversy over the impact of novel techniques and therapies on humans, animals and the environment. While there has to date been no adverse publicity about the Company, its collaborators, or its products, such adverse publicity in the future, should it arise, may hurt the Company’s public image, which could harm its operations, cause its share price to decrease or impair its ability to gain market acceptance for its products. The Company has adopted an ethics policy for genetic research. 