ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our liquidity, financing, and capital structure Our failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement would likely have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Our current credit agreement contains certain financial covenants, including requirements regarding certain specified minimum thresholds for EBITDA (i.e., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). We failed to comply with the financial covenants contained in our former credit agreement, and we may be unable to maintain compliance with the EBITDA threshold included in our current credit agreement. We may not be able to comply with the covenants contained in our current credit agreement, in which case we will be in default under our credit agreement and, under certain circumstances, the lenders could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be 23 Table of Contents immediately due and payable, could elect to exercise control over our cash through their rights under the deposit account and control agreement, and institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under our credit agreement. Any such actions would likely force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Furthermore, if our lenders caused all outstanding amounts with respect to the credit agreement debt to be due and payable immediately, we would simultaneously cross default under the indenture governing our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes. If accelerated, upon an event of default, our assets and cash flow would be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. Also, if the indebtedness were accelerated, this would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which would likely cause a deterioration of our relationships with our customers and suppliers and adversely affect our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including the Senior Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure including filing for bankruptcy protection, which would likely result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness, which continues to adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated long-term debt (including current maturities) accounted for approximately 101% of our total capitalization. The degree to which we are leveraged continues to have substantial negative consequences, because: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and therefore would not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • our existing credit agreement limits our ability to acquire businesses and incur indebtedness required to finance such acquisitions; • we are more highly leveraged than our major national competitors, which places us at a competitive disadvantage; • it makes us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general; and • we are vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. The degree to which we are leveraged may also have substantial future negative consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012, including our ability and our decision to make interest payments thereunder when due and payable; • our ability to finance and consummate transactions that may be critical to our strategic and financial condition could be limited; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited. In addition, because our current term loan is a payment-in-kind term loan facility, accrued interest is added to the principal amount on each interest payment date, provided that we may, at our election, pay any such accrued interest in cash on such date. We have not elected to pay any such accrued interest in cash since inception of the Senior Facility. Accordingly, all interest accrued to date has been added to the principal amount on the applicable interest payment dates (representing all accrued interest under the payment-in-kind term loan that became payable during such periods). Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We will likely need to 24 Table of Contents refinance all or a portion of our debt, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure including filing for bankruptcy protection, which likely would result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. We may need to pursue a strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transaction in order to preserve our long-term financial condition, and current market conditions could limit our ability to consummate such a transaction, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we continue to explore various strategic transactions, such as an acquisition, debt exchange, equity offering, or a combination of any such transactions, the current conditions of the capital markets may curb our ability to pursue such transactions. In the event that market conditions preclude our ability to consummate such a transaction, we may be required to consider additional alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure, including filing for bankruptcy protection, which likely would result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. Failure to maintain current levels of collectibility of our accounts receivable likely would have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flow. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from customers under co-insurance provisions. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines after which they will not pay submitted claims. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of collectibility or that third-party payors will not experience financial difficulties. We may be unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, which likely would result in a significant decline in our operating cash flows. We are currently not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, which will result in the delisting of our common stock by the NASDAQ Capital Market if we cannot regain compliance, which likely would, among other things, adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. On November 16, 2007, we were notified by the NASDAQ that our common stock was subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market because the market value of our publicly held shares was less than the $15 million minimum required for continued listing pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(3). We were granted ninety (90) calendar days to regain compliance with the requirement. However, we were not able to do so. In addition, on December 10, 2007, we were notified by NASDAQ that our common stock was subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market because the bid price of our publicly held shares had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). We were granted one-hundred eighty (180) calendar days, or until June 9, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. As of the date of this report, we have not regained compliance with such requirement. Due to our inability to regain compliance with the market value of publicly held securities listing requirement of the NASDAQ Global Market, on February 8, 2008, we applied to transfer the listing of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market with its less restrictive continued listing requirements. On February 21, 2008, NASDAQ approved the transfer of our common stock 25 Table of Contents listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market and, on February 27, 2008, our common stock began trading on such Market under the symbol “ROHI”. However, in order to maintain that listing, we must still satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing standards, including the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement and a requirement for us to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million or net income from continuing operations of at least $500,000. Based upon the recent price levels of our common stock and our stockholders’ equity and net income from continuing operations provided in the financial statements included in this report, we are not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we cannot remedy our noncompliance during any applicable notice or grace periods, our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The delisting of our common stock would likely have a material adverse effect on the trading price and volume, liquidity, and marketability of our common stock. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock are concentrated in a small number of stockholders which, acting together, could exercise significant influence over certain aspects of our business. As of December 31, 2007, our five largest stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, any of these large stockholders acting independently could work to frustrate the majority. Risks related to our reliance on Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party reimbursement A majority of our customers have primary health coverage under Medicare Part B, and recently enacted and future changes in the reimbursement rates or payment methodologies under the Medicare program could materially and adversely affect our business. As a provider of home oxygen and other respiratory therapy services for the home health care market, we have historically depended heavily on Medicare reimbursement as a result of the high proportion of elderly persons suffering from respiratory disease. Medicare Part B, the Supplementary Medical Insurance Program, provides coverage to eligible beneficiaries for durable medical equipment (DME), such as oxygen equipment, respiratory assistance devices, continuous positive airway pressure devices, nebulizers and associated inhalation medications, hospital beds and wheelchairs for the home setting. Approximately 55% of our customers have primary coverage under Medicare Part B. There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control health care costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical equipment and services. Medicare reimbursement is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative and executive orders and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially decrease payments to us for the services and equipment we provide. Recent legislation, including the Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007 (“SCHIP Extension Act”), the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) and the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”), contain provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the primary respiratory and other DME products that we provide. The SCHIP Extension Act will reduce Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Medicare Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. The DRA contains provisions that will negatively impact reimbursement for oxygen equipment beginning in 2009 and negatively impacted reimbursement for DME items subject to capped rental payments beginning in 2007. The MMA significantly reduced reimbursement for inhalation drug therapies beginning in 2005, reduced payment amounts for five categories of DME, including oxygen, beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for other covered DME items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program for DME beginning in 2008, and implemented quality standards 26 Table of Contents and accreditation requirements for DME suppliers. The SCHIP Extension Act, DRA and MMA provisions, when fully implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. In addition, President George W. Bush’s proposed 2008 budget continues to include a further reduction in the maximum rental period for home oxygen equipment from 36 months to 13 months. We cannot predict the impact that any federal legislation enacted in the future will have on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a dramatic effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. Reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs is subject to federal and state statutory and regulatory requirements, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy, implementation of reimbursement procedures, renewal of Veterans Administration contracts, retroactive payment adjustments and governmental funding restrictions. Our levels of revenue and profitability, like those of other health care companies, are affected by the continuing efforts of government payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates. A significant percentage of our business is derived from the sale and rental of Medicare-covered oxygen and DME items, and recent legislative acts impose substantial changes in the Medicare payment methodologies and reductions in the Medicare payment amounts for these items. Furthermore, legislative proposals currently under consideration by the U.S. Congress could impose even deeper payment reductions for Medicare-covered oxygen equipment which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. The DRA changes the reimbursement methodology for oxygen equipment from continuous monthly payment for as long as the equipment is in use by a Medicare beneficiary, which includes payment for oxygen contents and maintenance of equipment, to a capped rental arrangement whereby payment for oxygen equipment (including portable oxygen equipment) may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 36 months. On the first day that begins after the 36th continuous month during which payment is made for the oxygen equipment, the supplier would transfer title of the equipment to the beneficiary. Separate payments for oxygen contents would continue to be made for the period of medical need beyond the 36th month. According to the legislation, additional payments for maintenance and service of the oxygen equipment would be made for parts and labor not covered by a supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty. The oxygen provisions contained in DRA became effective on January 1, 2006. In the case of beneficiaries receiving oxygen equipment prior to the effective date, the 36-month period of continuous use began on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology will impact our net revenues is January 2009. The DRA also changes the reimbursement methodology for items of DME in the capped rental payment category, including but not limited to such items as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices, certain respiratory assist devices, nebulizers, hospital beds and wheelchairs. For such items of DME, payment may not extend over a period of continuous use of longer than 13 months. The option for a supplier to retain ownership of the item after a 15-month rental period and receive semi-annual maintenance and service payments will be eliminated. On the first day that begins after the 13th continuous month during which payment is made for the item, the supplier will transfer title of the item to the beneficiary. Additional payments for maintenance and service of the item will be made for parts and labor not covered by a supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty. The DME capped rental provisions contained in the DRA applies to items furnished for which the first rental month occurred on or after January 1, 2006. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was February 2007. In addition, on January 26, 2006, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), announced a final rule revising the payment classification of certain respiratory assist devices (RADs). RADs with a backup rate feature were reclassified as capped rental DME items effective April 1, 2006, whereby payments to providers of such devices will cease after the 13th continuous month of rental. Prior to the rule, providers were paid a continuous monthly rental amount over the 27 Table of Contents entire period of medical necessity. In cases where Medicare beneficiaries received the item prior to April 1, 2006, only the rental payments for months after the effective date count toward the 13-month cap. Accordingly, the first month in which the new payment methodology impacted our net revenues was May 2007. We estimate that the capped rental changes to DME and RADs reduced our net revenues and operating income by approximately $4.1 million in 2007. On November 1, 2006, CMS issued its final rule describing the Medicare regulations, as interpreted by CMS, required to implement the DRA oxygen provisions. The rule codified the new payment methodology and related provisions with respect to oxygen, including, but not limited to, defining the 36-month capped rental period of continuous use, transfer of title, payment for oxygen contents for beneficiary-owned oxygen equipment, payment for maintenance and servicing of oxygen equipment and procedures for replacement of beneficiary-owned equipment. The DRA oxygen provisions and related regulations represented a fundamental change in the Medicare payment system for oxygen. These provisions are complex, and are expected to result in profound changes in the provider-customer relationship for oxygen equipment and related services. We believe that the 36-month rental cap will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations when it takes effect in 2009 and beyond. We have reviewed the impact of the 36 month rental cap on the composite depreciable life of our rental assets and believe that no change is necessary to our current five year composite useful life for rental equipment at this time. However, we will continue to evaluate our estimates of useful lives based on our experience with ownership transfers of capped rental equipment in future periods, which may result in future reduction of our composite useful life and thereby increased depreciation expense in the future. Included in rule the final rule implementing the DRA oxygen provisions are changes to the Medicare payment rates for oxygen and oxygen equipment that took effect on January 1, 2007. CMS is exercising its authority under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) to establish separate classes and monthly payment rates for oxygen. The rule establishes a new class and monthly payment amount for oxygen-generating portable equipment (OGPE), which includes oxygen transfilling equipment and portable oxygen concentrators. An OGPE add-on payment, applicable during the 36-month rental period, will be made for these systems in the amount of $51.63. Payments for the new OGPE add-on began on January 1, 2007 for new and existing oxygen users. CMS is also increasing the monthly payment amounts for portable oxygen contents for beneficiary-owned liquid or gaseous oxygen equipment from approximately $20.77 to $77.45. The increase in payments for portable oxygen contents became effective on January 1, 2007 for new and existing oxygen users. The BBA requires these changes to be budget neutral, and accordingly, CMS reduced other Medicare oxygen payment rates beginning in 2007. As a result, the monthly payment amount for stationary oxygen equipment is expected to change each year in order to offset the impact from changes in beneficiary utilization of OGPE equipment. For 2008, the payment rate for stationary oxygen equipment will increase from $198.40 to $199.28. CMS will revise payment rates in future years under the methodology specified in the rule based on actual OGPE use and updated data on the distribution of beneficiaries using oxygen equipment. To the extent that our distribution of oxygen equipment and oxygen contents in future years mirrors that of the overall Medicare market, these future payment rate revisions would not be expected to have a significant effect on the overall level of reimbursement for our oxygen business. Throughout the second half of 2007, Congress was considering legislation that would have included further reductions in payment amounts for certain classes of oxygen equipment. The resulting legislation, the SCHIP Extension Act, was signed into law by the President of the United States on December 29, 2007, and temporarily addressed a number of Medicare program issues. The SCHIP Extension Act did not contain any provisions affecting Medicare reimbursement for oxygen equipment. The SCHIP Extension Act suspended a 10.1% reduction in Medicare physician payments that was scheduled for 2008 and gave physicians a 0.5% increase through June 30, 2008. The proposed 10.1% reduction in Medicare physician payments was driven by the statutory sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula, which is intended to control the growth in aggregate Medicare expenditures for physician services. Congress previously passed similar legislation to avert a reduction in Medicare physician payments in 2007. It is anticipated that Congress will revisit the issue of physician payment 28 Table of Contents rates and other Medicare program issues in 2008 and consider whether to extend SGR relief beyond June 30, 2008. It is possible that reimbursement changes for oxygen equipment could be considered at that time. Further reductions in Medicare reimbursement for oxygen equipment could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. A significant percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered respiratory medications, and recent legislation imposed significant reductions in Medicare reimbursement for such inhalation drugs. Historically, prescription drug coverage under Medicare has been limited to drugs furnished incident to a physician’s services and certain self-administered drugs, including inhalation drug therapies. Prior to the MMA, Medicare reimbursement for covered Medicare Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, was limited to 95 percent of the published average wholesale price (AWP) for the drug. The MMA established new payment limits and procedures for drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B. Beginning in 2005, inhalation drugs furnished to Medicare beneficiaries were reimbursed at 106 percent of the volume-weighted average selling price (ASP) of the drug, as determined from data provided each quarter by drug manufacturers under a specific formula described in the MMA. Implementation of the ASP-based formula resulted in a dramatic reduction in payment rates for inhalation drugs in 2005 and beyond. Recently enacted legislation will further affect Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Medicare Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. The SCHIP Extension Act requires CMS to adjust the ASP calculation methodology used to determine Medicare payment amounts for inhalation drugs by using volume-weighted ASPs based on actual sales volume rather than average selling price. When implemented on April 1, 2008, the new calculation methodology is expected to result in lower reimbursement amounts for certain inhalation drugs. The SCHIP Extension Act also specifically lowers reimbursement for the inhalation drug albuterol. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the provisions of the SCHIP Extension Act affecting Medicare Part B drug reimbursement will result in reductions in aggregate Medicare outlays for such drugs of $1.0 billion over five years and $2.6 billion over 10 years. CMS is expected to announce in March 2008 the payment rates to be in effect for the second quarter of 2008. We can not determine the impact of such payment reductions on our business until CMS publishes the new quarterly reimbursement amounts for each specific inhalation drug that we provide, however reductions in the reimbursement rate for single dose albuterol could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Recent regulatory changes subject the Medicare reimbursement rates for our equipment and services to additional reductions and to potential discretionary adjustment by CMS, which could reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows. The BBA granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. The regulation implementing the inherent reasonableness authority establishes a process for adjusting payments for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and its contractors to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what a realistic and equitable payment amount is. Also, under the regulation, CMS and its contractors will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. The implementation of the inherent reasonableness procedure itself does not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services and to date, no payment adjustments have occurred or been proposed under this inherent reasonableness procedure. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS has the discretion to reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment (HME) to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative 29 Table of Contents treatment that meets the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. Least costly alternative (LCA) determinations may be applied to particular products and services by CMS and its contractors through the informal notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME. This process need not be followed for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness or least costly alternative authority, CMS and its contractors may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Federal law establishing a competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Recent legislation (see “Business—Government Regulation—Medicare Laws and Regulations” in Part I, Item 1 above) instructs CMS to establish and implement programs under which competitive bidding areas (CBAs) will be established throughout the United States for contract award purposes for the furnishing of competitively priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment. The program will be implemented in phases such that competition under the program will occur in ten of the largest metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) in 2008, expanding to 70 additional MSAs for a total of 80 MSAs in 2009, and additional areas thereafter. Items selected for competitive acquisition will be phased in first among the highest cost and highest volume items and services or those items and services that CMS determines have the largest savings potential. In carrying out such programs, CMS may exempt rural areas and areas with low-population density within urban areas that are not competitive, unless there is a significant national market through mail order for a particular item or service. A large number of our facilities are located in such rural areas; however, the criteria for how the exemption will be applied have not yet been determined. For each CBA, CMS will conduct a competition under which providers will submit bids to supply certain covered items of DME. Successful bidders will be expected to meet certain program quality standards in order to be awarded a contract and only successful bidders can supply the covered items to Medicare beneficiaries in the acquisition area. The applicable contract award prices are expected to be less than would be paid under current Medicare fee schedules, and contracts will be re-bid at least every three years. CMS will be required to award at least five contracts in each CBA for an item or service, but will have the authority to limit the number of contractors in a competitive acquisition area to the number needed to meet projected demand. If there are fewer than five suppliers bidding, however, then at least two contract suppliers must be selected for that particular CBA. CMS may use competitive bid pricing information to adjust the payment amount otherwise in effect for an area that is not a CBA. On April 2, 2007, CMS issued its final rule implementing the first round of the competitive bidding program in ten of the largest MSA’s across the country, applying initially to ten categories of DME and medical supplies. CMS is currently concluding the bid evaluation process and is expected to announce winning suppliers for the first round in March 2008 and conduct intensive beneficiary and referral agent education from April 1, 2008 to July 1, 2008. The effective date for the first round of the program is currently scheduled to begin on July 1, 2008. Until such time that the bids are awarded and the associated fee schedules and participating providers are announced, we will not be able to determine the impact of the final rule with respect to the first round of competitive bidding, nor can we predict the effect the process will have on our ability to continue to provide products to Medicare beneficiaries. On January 8, 2008, CMS announced the next 70 MSAs and the applicable product categories for the second round of the competitive bidding program. CMS has stated that it plans to announce the specific zip codes included in each of the respective MSA for round two of competitive bidding, as well as the specific items contained in each product category during the first quarter of 2008. Until such time that the bids are awarded and the associated fee schedules and participating providers are announced, we will not be able to determine the impact of the final rule with respect to the second round of competitive bidding, nor can we predict the effect the process will have on our ability to continue to provide products to Medicare beneficiaries. 30 Table of Contents Proposed surety bond requirements could result in significant additional cost in operating our business. On August 1, 2007, CMS published a proposed rule that would require all HME suppliers, except those that are government-operated, to obtain and furnish a surety bond to the National Supplier Clearinghouse, the Medicare contractor responsible for enrollment, for each Medicare supplier number held. CMS previously issued a proposed surety bond requirement in 1998 to implement the BBA. At that time, the proposed surety bond amount was $50,000; CMS has adjusted the proposed surety bond amount to $65,000 to reflect inflation. CMS sought public comments on, among other things, whether the surety bond amount should be increased for so-called “higher-risk” suppliers and whether to establish an exception to the requirement for publicly traded chain suppliers. The deadline for submitting comments to CMS was October 1, 2007. It is unclear whether the proposal would exempt publicly traded chain suppliers of HME, or whether such an exemption, if any, would be available to us. If this proposal were enacted and if no such exemption is included, or if such an exemption, if any, is not made available to us, then we would be required to obtain surety bonds for each of our approximately 500 locations, resulting in significant additional cost in operating our business. Future reductions in reimbursement rates under Medicaid could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. In addition to cost containment initiatives associated with Medicare and Medicaid, we are affected by continuing efforts by private third-party payors to control their costs. If we lower our prices due to pricing pressures from private third-party payors, then our results of operations and financial condition would likely deteriorate. Private payors continually seek to control the cost of providing health care services through direct contracts with health care providers, increased oversight and greater enrollment of patients in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by the health care provider of all or a portion of the financial risk. Reimbursement payments under private payor programs may not remain at current levels and may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs, and we may suffer deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by private third-party payors. We may be compelled to lower our prices due to increased pricing pressures, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to deteriorate. Risks related to our compliance with federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as accreditation standards Our pharmacy locations and operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal authorities and there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with such regulations. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain licenses from each state to which we deliver such pharmaceuticals. We are therefore subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws can vary significantly from state to state and, while we continuously monitor state activities and changes in the law, there can be no 31 Table of Contents assurance that we are fully compliant with all laws and regulations that may apply to our pharmacy operations in particular jurisdictions. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our license in a particular state or for other reasons. Failure to comply with applicable state regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension or failure to renew our state pharmacy licenses, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. Our business, including our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program, is subject to extensive laws and government regulations. Failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to severe sanctions and have a significant negative impact on our operations. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including: • billing practices including substantiation and record keeping requirements; • prohibitions on fraud and abuse, kickbacks, rebates and fee splitting; • licensing and certification requirements; • confidentiality, privacy and security issues in connection with medical records and patient information; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of durable medical equipment and other medical equipment; • handling, distribution and disposal of pharmaceutical products and medical waste; • quality assurance; and • occupational safety. Existing United States laws governing Medicare and state health care programs such as Medicaid, as well as similar laws enacted in many states, impose a broad variety of prohibitions on soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration, payment or benefit for the referral of a patient for services or products reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions or “safe harbors” for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate these prohibitions. Violation of these prohibitions may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare and state health care programs. The federal and state “Stark Laws” impose a broad range of restrictions upon referring physicians (and their immediate family) and providers of certain designated health services under Medicare and state health care programs, including restrictions on financial relationships between the referring physicians and the providers of the designated health care services. Services that we provide are classified as designated health services and fall within the regulatory scope of the Stark Laws. Significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties may be imposed for violation of these laws. We are also subject to strict licensing and safety requirements by the federal government and many states. Furthermore, many state laws prohibit physicians from sharing professional fees with non-physicians and prohibit non-physician entities, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing physicians to practice medicine. In addition, both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. 32 Table of Contents Further, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS and the Department of Justice (DOJ) have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. In 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the DHHS to settle claims against Rotech Medical Corporation relating to certain Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, we or our executives could be included in other governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. On April 30, 2003, federal agents served search warrants at our corporate headquarters and four other facilities in three states and were provided access to a number of current and historical financial records and other materials. Since that time, we have received subpoenas on behalf of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois relating to the same subject matter including information relating to Medicare billing and Department of Veterans Affairs contracting. In January, 2008, the Assistant United States Attorney handling the investigation advised the Company that the U.S. Attorney’s Office was declining to pursue any of the issues being investigated with the exception of issues relating to the Company’s provision of certain supplies to the Maine Medicaid program which remain under investigation. We are cooperating fully with the investigation. However, we can give no assurances as to the duration of the investigation or as to whether or not the government will institute proceedings against us or any of our employees or as to the violations that may be asserted. In February of 2007, a representative from the California Department of Health Services (the “Department”) conducted surveys at our Forest City and Napa, California locations. Each location is licensed by the Department as a “Home Medical Device Retailer” and as such, must comply with certain statutes under the California Health and Safety Code (the “Code”). The Department’s representative alleged that each location was in violation of certain sections of the Code. In the Napa location, an embargo notice was also issued with respect to the dispensing of legend items. Certain legend items were erroneously dispensed during the embargo resulting in an additional notice of violation for the Napa location. The embargo was lifted by the Department after immediate corrective actions were taken. Both locations are preparing a final corrective action plan for the alleged violations for submission to the Department. In addition, we have provided information relating to equipment maintenance requirements requested by the representative. This investigation remains open, we intend to continue to cooperate with the investigation and we have suspended billings from these locations to government healthcare programs and all other payors pending implementation of certain corrective actions. If the Department so elects, the Code allows it to pursue administrative or civil action, with maximum civil penalties of up to $1,000 per violation. In addition, any violation of an embargo is a misdemeanor under California law. If the matter is referred for criminal prosecution, and there is a criminal conviction, the penalty is imprisonment for not more than one year in the county jail and/or a maximum fine of $1,000 per violation. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, any resulting enforcement action, including related fines, injunctions, and civil or criminal penalties, could limit our ability to operate our Foster City and Napa locations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, demands from the government for refunds or recoupment of amounts previously paid to us by the government, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Some statutory and regulatory provisions, principally in the area of billing, have not been interpreted by the courts and may be interpreted or applied in a manner that might adversely affect us. Changes in health care laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on our business and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Lack of accreditation of our operating centers or failure to meet government standards for coverage could result in a decline in our revenues. Currently, all of our operating centers are accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO). If future reviews by JCAHO do not result in continued accreditation of our operating centers, we would likely experience a decline in our revenues. Further, under the MMA, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for home medical equipment and certain supplies and has a supplier number for submission of claims must be accredited as meeting quality standards issued by CMS as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. The standards for HME suppliers consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management requirements, which are applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, and which focus on product specialization and service standards. The product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and power and manual wheelchairs and other mobility equipment. We have revised our policies and procedures to ensure compliance in all material respects with the quality standards. On July 31, 2006, CMS issued a final rule, which implements criteria for accrediting organizations to be selected by CMS to apply the final quality standards. In addition, on November 22, 2006, CMS announced that JCAHO has been selected to be one of the recognized accreditation organizations. The final rule does not provide us with sufficient information to predict the impact of competitive bidding or the final accreditation criteria on our business. The MMA also authorizes CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for home medical equipment. These clinical conditions for payment could limit or reduce the number of individuals who can sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. Some clinical conditions have been implemented, such as the requirement for a face-to-face visit by treating physicians for beneficiaries seeking power mobility devices. In addition, because we have Medicare supplier numbers and are subject to any clinical conditions for payment, our failure to meet such conditions could affect our ability to bill and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions will have on our business. We are subject to periodic audits by governmental and private payors. We are subject to periodic audits by Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the oversight agencies for these programs have rights and remedies they can assert against us if they determine we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These agencies could seek to require us to repay any overcharges or amounts billed in violation of program requirements, or could make deductions from future amounts otherwise due to us from these programs. We could also be subject to fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Private payors also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of recent efforts by government payors to reduce health care costs. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state authorities and there can be no assurance that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with such regulations. We currently have approximately 160 medical gas facilities in 40 states subject to federal and state regulatory requirements. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other federal and state authorities. The FDA regulates medical gases, including medical oxygen, pursuant to its authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). Among other requirements, the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations impose certain quality control, documentation and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. Further, in each state in which we do business, our medical gas facilities are subject to regulation under state health and safety laws, which vary from state to state. The FDA and state authorities conduct periodic, unannounced inspections at medical gas facilities to assess compliance with the cGMP and other 34 Table of Contents regulations, and we expend significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations and other federal and state law requirements at each of our medical gas facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that these efforts will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with federal and state law regulations. Our failure to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance at our medical gas facilities could result in enforcement action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, temporary or permanent injunctions, or suspensions in operations at one or more locations, and civil or criminal penalties which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with regulations under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules (“HIPAA”) relating to the transmission and privacy of health information could impose additional significant costs on our operations. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA, govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA also includes standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, and privacy and electronic security of individually identifiable health information. Each set of HIPAA regulations requires health care providers, including us, in addition to health plans and clearinghouses, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. Risks related to operational and financial performance Inability to maintain significant vendor relationships could result in a significant disruption in our business, materially adversely affect our results of operations and result in an inability to serve our patients if we lose these relationships. We currently have certain critical vendor relationships. Although we have been able to maintain such relationships without material interruption in the past, there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue. Should any of these vendors elect not to provide services, equipment, inhalation drugs or supplies to us, there would likely be a significant disruption to our business, a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations and an inability to serve our patients until such time as a replacement vendor could be identified. This would likely occur if there is a deterioration or perceived deterioration in our financial position, including our standing with respect to our senior subordinated debt. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the pricing structure that we currently enjoy would be matched by a replacement vendor. Additionally, any future issues with liquidity, debt covenant compliance or declines in our results of operations, could adversely impact our ability to leverage our purchasing activities with new or existing vendors. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal 35 Table of Contents and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we have discovered and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Based upon management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If we do not enhance and maintain effective and efficient information systems, then our operations may be disrupted and our anticipated operating efficiency may not be realized. Our operations are dependent on the enhancement and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to enhance and maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and prevent us from achieving operating efficiency. Increases in our costs could erode our profit margins and substantially reduce our net income and cash flows. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. We may write off additional intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of the implementation of “fresh-start” reporting during 2002, the assets and liabilities of Rotech Medical Corporation were revalued, which resulted in approximately $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill. As of December 31, 2007, the reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill was approximately $163.2 million after we recorded $529.0 million in impairment charges during 2006, as described below. Other goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of purchased operations. As of December 31, 2007, this goodwill was approximately $43.9 million. Any future acquisitions by us will likely result in the recognition of additional intangible assets. Due to an overall decline in our profitability which resulted primarily from decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates, including the recent reductions for compounded budesonide and the resulting decline in our market capitalization, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $529.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. 36 Table of Contents On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. We may be subject to claims arising from investigations and legal proceedings, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we are from time to time involved in other legal proceedings. In connection with its emergence from bankruptcy, claims made against our predecessor prior to the date it filed for bankruptcy protection were satisfied in accordance with the terms of its plan of reorganization or pursuant to settlement agreements approved by the Bankruptcy Court. Although management believes that all pre-petition state claims have also been discharged or dealt with in the plan of reorganization, states in other bankruptcy cases, however, have challenged whether, as a matter of law, their claims could be discharged in a federal bankruptcy proceeding if they never made an appearance in the case. The issue has not been finally settled by the United States Supreme Court. Therefore, there is no assurance that a court would find that emergence from bankruptcy would discharge all such state claims against us or our predecessor involving pre-petition claims. Any such claim not discharged could result in a decline in our financial condition and profitability. Since the date of confirmation of the plan of reorganization, we have not and our predecessor has not received any correspondence from a state challenging the pre-petition discharge of claims. If the coverage limits on our insurance policies are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Participants in the health care industry, including us, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance premiums will be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. In the event that we acquire companies, we may incur unknown liabilities for their past practices, we may be unable to successfully integrate such companies into our operations and our results of operations could deteriorate. If we acquire additional companies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate such companies successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively and profitably. The process of integrating newly acquired businesses may be costly and disruptive. Our operational, financial and management systems may be incompatible with or inadequate to cost-effectively integrate and manage the acquired systems. As a result, billing practices could be interrupted and cash collections on the newly acquired business could be delayed pending conversion of patient files onto our billing systems and receipt of appropriate licensures and provider numbers from government payors. The integration may place significant demands on our management, diverting their attention from our existing operations. If we are not successful in integrating acquired businesses, our results of operations would likely decline. We may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations. We have policies to conform the practices of acquired facilities to our standards and applicable law and generally intend to seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters. We may, however, incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Risks related to competition and referral sources 37 Table of Contents If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to build volume that justifies discounted prices. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are now provided by a small number of managed care organizations and third-party payors. These organizations, including the Veterans Administration, generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent such organizations terminate agreements with us and/or engage our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, including the Veterans Administration, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, then our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relations with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees, and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, then our revenues may decline. We experience competition from numerous other home medical equipment providers, and this competition could result in a deterioration in our revenues and business. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers but most of which are either regional or local providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service, a professional staff with clinical and technical expertise and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. The rest of the market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as hundreds of smaller companies with under $5 million in revenues. Many of the smaller, owner-operated home medical equipment providers may have a higher level of service quality that is difficult to replicate. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home health care markets. The competitive nature of the home medical equipment environment could result in a deterioration in our revenues and our business. Risks related to recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified employees and directors We are highly dependent on our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could result in a decline in our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Philip L. Carter, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success is dependent on the ability of our managers and sales personnel to manage and promote our business, operations and growth. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents If we are not able to hire qualified management and other personnel, or if costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, then our ability to deliver equipment and services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel. Our highest cost is in the payment of salaries to our approximately 4,800 full time employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees, which has caused increased salary and wage rates. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. Further, in the event that our business operations or financial condition further deteriorate, we may not be able to maintain or recruit critical employees. We may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve as members of our Board of Directors. Our board of directors is currently comprised of five members, three of whom are independent under applicable NASDAQ marketplace rules. Due to our current financial condition and the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve on our board if required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 