Item 1A. Risk Factors. Some or all of the following factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. The Company and its performance will be subject to additional risks as have been listed in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-11, as amended, as previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash dividends or that dividends will increase over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash dividends we pay to shareholders. Such factors, include general economic conditions, real estate market conditions, rental and occupancy rates at our properties, our ability to buy properties as offering proceeds become available, the yields on securities of other real estate programs that we invest in, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain dividends or that dividends will increase over time. We also can give no assurance that rents from our properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased dividends over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for dividends to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of trustees in establishing the dividend rate to shareholders. 9 If we experience decreased cash flows, we may need to use other sources of cash to fund dividends or we may be unable to pay dividends. Actual cash available for dividends may vary substantially from estimates. If our cash dividends exceed the amount of cash available for dividends, we may need to fund the shortage out of working capital, borrowings under our lines of credit or out of proceeds of our Public Offering, which would reduce the amount of proceeds available for real estate investments. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our total distributions exceeded our net cash flow from operating activities by $605,263. We funded this shortage with cash from borrowings under our KeyBank credit facility. Should cash flows continue not to cover our total distributions, our ability to pay dividends at the current rate, or at all, may be adversely affected. We may need to incur additional borrowings to meet REIT minimum distribution requirements. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Internal Revenue Code will subject us to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. Although we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders in a manner that allows us to meet the foregoing distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to do so. Our income consists almost solely of our share of the Operating Partnership’s income, and the cash available for distribution by us to our shareholders consists of our share of cash distributions made by the Operating Partnership. Because we are the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, our trustees determine the amount of any distributions made by it. The trustees may consider a number of factors in making such distributions, including: · the amount of the cash available for distribution; · the Operating Partnership’s financial condition; · the Operating Partnership’s capital expenditure requirements; and · our annual distribution requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and the inclusion of such income and deduction of such expenses when determining our taxable income, as well as the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures and the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements and to avoid the 4% excise tax described above. In such circumstances, we might need to borrow funds to avoid adverse tax consequences even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for such borrowings or that such borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of such tax consideration. We may incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks. If it is determined to be in our best interests, we may, in some instances, acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by some or all of our real properties to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to shareholders as dividends at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. 10 We may incur mortgage debt on a particular real property if we believe the property’s projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. However, if there is a shortfall in cash flow, then the amount available for dividends to shareholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and our loss of the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders will be adversely affected. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, our operations and dividends to shareholders would be adversely impacted. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: · we would not be allowed to deduct our distributions to shareholders when computing our taxable income; · we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions; · our cash available for dividends would be reduced and we would have less cash to pay dividends to shareholders; and · we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of our disqualification. Our debt agreements impose limits on our operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The agreements relating to the debt we incur contain financial and operating covenants that may limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders. Our existing credit facilities contain financial and operating covenants, including: · net worth requirements; · debt service coverage of at least 1.5 to 1.0; · loan-to-value ratio of the borrowing base pool to total funded loan balance of at least 1.67 to 1.00; · total debt not to exceed 60% of fair market value of the real estate assets; 11 · the ratio of secured debt to fair market value of real estate assets not to exceed 40%; · interest coverage ratio of at least 2.0 to 1.0; · we must hedge certain amounts of variable interest rate debt; · maintenance of specific levels of insurance; and · limitations on our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders, sell assets or engage in mergers, consolidation or make certain acquisitions. Failure to comply with these covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to fund our operations and conduct our business. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other debt agreements we may enter into in the future. A default could cause one or more of our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments which could force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms. As of December 31, 2005, we were in violation of one such covenant. While we are currently in discussions with the lenders to obtain a waiver, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such waiver. As this violation constitutes an event of default, our lenders have the right to accelerate payment. For more discussion, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Similar violations of our loan covenants may occur in the future. Because of the lack of geographic diversification of our portfolio, an economic downturn in the Houston, Dallas or San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas could adversely impact our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. All of our assets and revenues are currently derived from properties located in the Houston, Dallas and San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas. Our results of operation are directly contingent on our ability to attract financially sound commercial tenants. If Houston, Dallas or San Antonio experiences a significant economic downturn, our ability to locate and/or retain financially sound tenants may decrease. Likewise, we may be required to lower our rental rates to attract desirable tenants in such an environment. Consequently, because of the lack of geographic diversity among our current assets, if Houston, Dallas or San Antonio experiences an economic downturn, our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders could be adversely impacted. There is no public trading market for our shares of common stock; therefore, it will be difficult for shareholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our shares of common stock. Our charter also imposes restrictions on the ownership of common shares that will apply to potential transferees that may inhibit shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. Moreover, except for requests for redemptions by the estate, heir or beneficiary of a deceased shareholder, our board of trustees may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program at any time. Therefore, it will be difficult to sell our shares promptly or at all, and the seller may have to sell them at a substantial discount. We have acquired a majority of our properties from entities controlled by Mr. Hartman. We acquired 28 of the 37 properties we owned as of December 31, 2005 from entities controlled by Mr. Hartman. We acquired these properties by either paying cash, issuing our shares or issuing OP Units. No third parties were retained to represent or advise these selling entities or us, and the transactions were not conducted on an “arm’s-length” basis. Mr. Hartman had interests that differed from, and in certain cases conflicted with, his co-investors in these entities. Mr. Hartman received the following as a result of such transactions: · 897,117.19 OP Units, as adjusted to reflect the recapitalization, in consideration of Mr. Hartman’s general partner interest in the selling entities; 12 · the ability to limit his future exposure to general partner liability as a result of Mr. Hartman no longer serving as the general partner to certain of the selling entities; and · the repayment of debt encumbering various of our properties that was personally guaranteed by Mr. Hartman. As of December 31, 2005, an affiliate of Mr. Hartman owed us approximately $3.6 million in connection with properties contributed to the Operating Partnership by such affiliate. Mr. Hartman might not have been able to negotiate all of these benefits if the transactions were negotiated at arm’s length. Further, Mr. Hartman (neither personally nor in his capacity as a general partner) did not make any representations or warranties in regard to the properties or the selling entities in the operative documents executed in order to consummate the transactions. Consequently, we essentially acquired the properties on an “as is” basis. Therefore, we will bear the risk associated with any characteristics or deficiencies of our properties unknown at the closing of the acquisitions that may affect the valuation or revenue potential of the properties. Approximately 29.2% of our gross leasable area is subject to leases that expire during the two years ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2005, 29.2% of the aggregate gross leasable area of our properties is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2007. We are subject to the risk that: · tenants will not renew such leases; · we will not be able to re-lease the space subject to such leases; and · the terms of any renewal or re-lease will not be as favorable as current leases. If any of these risks materialize, our cash flow and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. The value of investments in our common shares will be directly affected by general economic and regulatory factors we cannot control or predict. We only own commercial real estate. Investments in real estate typically involve a high level of risk as the result of factors we cannot control or predict. One of the risks of investing in real estate is the possibility that our properties will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments. The following factors may affect income from properties and yields from investments in properties and are generally outside of our control: · conditions in financial markets; · over-building in our markets; · a reduction in rental income as the result of the inability to maintain occupancy levels; · adverse changes in applicable tax, real estate, environmental or zoning laws; · changes in general economic conditions; · a taking of any of our properties by eminent domain; · adverse local conditions (such as changes in real estate zoning laws that may reduce the desirability of real estate in the area); 13 · acts of God, such as earthquakes or floods and other uninsured losses; · changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; · changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; and · periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. Some or all of the foregoing factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for payments of dividends to you. Item 