Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Industry and our Business We require additional capital to continue operations. As of December 31, 2012 we had cash on hand of approximately $1,729,000 and current liabilities of approximately $2,077,000. We will need additional financing in the future in order to complete additional clinical studies and to support the commercialization of our proposed products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our capital raising efforts. Our long-term capital requirements are expected to depend on many factors, including: •continued progress and cost of our research and development programs; •progress with pre-clinical studies and clinical studies; •the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance in other countries and/or for other indications; •costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; •costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels; •market acceptance of our products; and •cost for training physicians and other health care personnel. We may direct Lincoln Park Capital ("LPC") to purchase up to $8,500,000 worth of shares of our common stock under our agreement over a 32 month period expiring in October 2014 generally in amounts of up to $50,000 every two business days, which amounts may be increased under certain circumstances. Assuming a purchase price of $0.135 per share (the closing sale price of the common stock on December 9, 2011) and the purchase by LPC of the full 38,000,000 purchase shares and along with issuance of 1,634,615 additional pro rata commitment shares registered under this offering, proceeds to us would be $5,130,000. To the extent we rely on LPC as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from LPC were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive and if we are unable to sell enough of our products, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we sell all $8,500,000 under the Purchase Agreement to LPC, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. Should the financing we require to sustain our working capital needs be unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, the consequences could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, we may have to relinquish economic and/or proprietary rights to some of our technologies or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize by ourselves. We currently are in the process of commercializing our products, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing commercial operations. We are a development stage company and have been engaged primarily in research and development activities and have generated limited revenues to date. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage the transition to a commercial enterprise. Potential investors should be aware of the problems, delays, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by an enterprise in the early stage of development, which include unanticipated problems relating to development of proposed products, testing, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, competition, market adoption, marketing problems and additional costs and expenses that may exceed current estimates. Our proposed products will require significant additional research and testing, and we will need to overcome significant regulatory burdens prior to commercialization in other countries, such as the U.S., and for ongoing compliance for our CE Mark. We will also need to raise significant additional funds to complete additional clinical studies and obtain regulatory approvals in other countries before we can begin selling our products in markets not covered by the CE Mark. There can be no assurance that after the expenditure of substantial funds and efforts, we will successfully develop and commercialize any products, generate any significant revenues or ever achieve and maintain a substantial level of sales of our products. 38 We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial future losses, and the report of our auditor on our consolidated financial statements expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have experienced substantial operating losses since inception. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $98,732,460, which included net losses of $3,663,506 for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $5,481,648 for the year ended December 31, 2011. In part due to these losses, our audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, and the auditors’ report on those financial statements express substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in the research and development of our polymer technology and general and administrative expenses. Because our predecessor was a limited liability company until December 2005, substantially all of these losses were allocated to that company’s members and will not be available for tax purposes to us in future periods. We intend to conduct significant additional research, development, and clinical study activities which, together with expenses incurred for the establishment of manufacturing arrangements and a marketing and distribution presence and other general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in continuing operating losses for the foreseeable future. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend, among other things, on successfully completing the development of our technology and commercial products, obtaining additional requisite regulatory approvals in markets not covered by the CE Mark and for potential label extensions of our current CE Mark, establishing manufacturing and sales and marketing arrangements with third parties, and raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. No assurance can be given that our product development efforts will be successful, that our current CE Mark will enable us to achieve profitability, that additional regulatory approvals in other countries will be obtained, that any of our products will be manufactured at a competitive cost and will be of acceptable quality, or that the we will be able to achieve profitability or that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained. We depend upon key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time. As of April 1, 2013 we currently have twenty full-time employees and several full-time interim employees. Our success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued services of our key management and advisors, including, Dr. Phillip Chan, our Chief Executive Officer; Ronald Berger, our Interim Chief Financial Officer; Vincent Capponi, our Chief Operating Officer and Dr. Robert Bartlett our Chief Medical Officer, who works with us on a consulting basis. These individuals do not have long-term employment agreements, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to provide services to us. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays in development or approval of our products, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. Our Chief Medical Officer works with us on a consulting basis. Our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Robert Bartlett, works with us on a consulting basis. Because of the part time nature of his consulting agreement, Dr. Bartlett may not always be available to provide us with his services when needed by us in a timely manner. Acceptance of our medical devices in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will prevent or delay our ability to generate revenues. Our future financial performance will depend, at least in part, upon the introduction and customer acceptance of our polymer products. Even with our approval to apply the CE Mark to our CytoSorb® device as a cytokine filter, our products may not achieve market acceptance in the European countries that recognize and accept the CE Mark. Additional approvals from other regulatory authorities (such as the FDA) will be required before we can market our device in countries not covered by the CE Mark. There is no guarantee that the Company will be able to achieve additional regulatory approvals, and even if we do, our products may not achieve market acceptance in the countries covered by such approvals. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: •the receipt of regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing; •the establishment and demonstration of the advantages, safety and efficacy of the our polymer technology; •pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other health plan administrators; •our ability to attract corporate partners, including medical device companies, to assist in commercializing our products; and •our ability to market our products. 39 Physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products. Approval of our CytoSorb® device as a cytokine filter as well as the data we have gathered in our clinical studies to support device usage in this indication may not be sufficient for market acceptance in the medical community. We may also need to conduct additional clinical studies to gather additional data for marketing purposes. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize and market our products when planned, we may not achieve any market acceptance or generate revenue. Even with our approval to apply the CE Mark to our CytoSorb® device as a cytokine filter, there can be no assurance that the data from our limited clinical studies will be viewed as sufficient by the medical community to support the purchase of our products in substantial quantities or at all. CytoSorb® is currently reimbursable in Germany and Austria. We plan to seek reimbursement for our product in other E.U. and non-E.U. countries to help further adoption. There can be no assurance when, or if, this additional reimbursement might be approved. We may face litigation from third parties claiming that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights, or seek to challenge the validity of our patents. Our future success is also dependent on the strength of our intellectual property, trade secrets and know-how, which have been developed from years of research and development. In addition to the “Purolite” litigation discussed below, we may be exposed to additional future litigation by third parties seeking to challenge the validity of our rights based on claims that our technologies, products or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others or are invalid, or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. Since our inception, we have sought to contract with large, established manufacturers to supply commercial quantities of our adsorbent polymers. As a result, we have disclosed, under confidentiality agreements, various aspects of our technology with potential manufacturers. We believe that these disclosures, while necessary for our business, have resulted in the attempt by potential suppliers to improperly assert ownership claims to our technology in an attempt to gain an advantage in negotiating manufacturing rights. We have previously engaged in discussions with the Brotech Corporation and its affiliate, Purolite International, Inc. (collectively “Purolite”), which had demonstrated a strong interest in being our polymer manufacturer. For a period of time beginning in December 1998, Purolite engaged in efforts to develop and optimize the manufacturing process needed to produce our polymer products on a commercial scale. However, the parties eventually decided not to proceed. In 2003, Purolite filed a lawsuit against us asserting, among other things, co-ownership and co-inventorship of certain of our patents. On September 1, 2006, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania approved a Stipulated Order and Settlement Agreement under which we and Purolite agreed to the settlement of the action. The Settlement Agreement provides us with the exclusive right to use our patented technology and proprietary know how relating to adsorbent polymers for a period of 18 years. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, we have agreed to pay Purolite royalties of 2.5% to 5% on the sale of certain of our products if and when those products are sold commercially. Several years ago we engaged in discussions with the Dow Chemical Company, which had indicated a strong interest in being our polymer manufacturer. After a Dow representative on our Advisory Board resigned, Dow filed and received several patents naming our former Advisory Board member as an inventor. In management’s view the Dow patents improperly incorporate our technology and should not have been granted to Dow. The existence of these Dow patents could result in a potential dispute with Dow in the future and additional expenses for us. We have commenced the process of seeking regulatory approvals of our products, but the approval process involves lengthy and costly clinical studies and is, in large part, not in the control of the Company. The failure to obtain government approvals, internationally or domestically, for our polymer products, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could prevent, delay or limit introduction or sale of our products and result in the failure to achieve revenues or maintain our operations. CytoSorb® has already achieved European Union regulatory approval under the CE Mark and the Medical Devices Directive. It is manufactured at our manufacturing facility in New Jersey under ISO 13485 Full Quality Systems certification. The manufacturing and marketing of our products will be subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the European market, the United States, in various states and in other foreign countries. In the United States and other countries, the process of obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will ever obtain the necessary additional approvals to sell our products in the United States or other non E.U. countries. Even if we do ultimately receive FDA approval for any of our products, we will be subject to extensive ongoing regulation. While the Company has received approval from its Notified Body to apply the CE Mark to our CytoSorb® device, we will be subject to extensive ongoing regulation and auditing requirements to maintain the CE Mark. 40 Our products will be subject to international regulation as medical devices under the Medical Devices Directive. In Europe, which we expect to provide the initial market for our products, the Notified Body and Competent Authority govern, where applicable, development, clinical studies, labeling, manufacturing, registration, notification, clearance or approval, marketing, distribution, record keeping, and reporting requirements for medical devices. Different regulatory requirements may apply to our products depending on how they are categorized by the Notified Body under these laws. Current international regulations classify our CytoSorb® device as a Class IIb device. Even though we have received CE Mark certification of the CytoSorb® device, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with the required annual auditing requirements or other international regulatory requirements that may be applicable. In addition, there can be no assurance that government regulations applicable to our products or the interpretation of those regulations will not change. The extent of potentially adverse government regulation that might arise from future legislation or administrative action cannot be predicted. There can be no assurances that reimbursement will be granted or that additional clinical data may be required to establish reimbursement. We have conducted limited clinical studies of our CytoSorb® and BetaSorb™ device. Clinical and pre-clinical data is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory clearances. To date, we have conducted limited clinical studies on our products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete additional clinical studies necessary to receive additional regulatory approvals in markets not covered by the CE Mark. While studies conducted by us and others have produced results we believe to be encouraging and indicative of the potential efficacy of our products and technology, data already obtained, or in the future obtained, from pre-clinical studies and clinical studies do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later pre-clinical studies and clinical studies. Moreover, pre-clinical and clinical data are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent additional regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical studies, even after promising results in earlier studies. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of an intended product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the device, resulting in delays to commercialization, and could materially harm our business. Even though we have received approval to apply the CE Mark to our CytoSorb® device as a cytokine filter, there can be no assurance that we will be able to receive approval for other potential applications of CytoSorb®, or that we will receive regulatory clearance from other targeted regions or countries. We rely extensively on research and testing facilities at various universities and institutions, which could adversely affect us should we lose access to those facilities. Although we have our own research laboratories and clinical facilities, we collaborate with numerous institutions, universities and commercial entities to conduct research and studies of our products. We currently maintain a good working relationship with these parties. However, should the situation change, the cost and time to establish or locate alternative research and development could be substantial and delay gaining CE Mark for other potential applications or technologies, and/or FDA approval and commercializing our products. We are and will be exposed to product liability risks, and clinical and preclinical liability risks, which could place a substantial financial burden upon us should we be sued. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. We cannot be sure that claims will not be asserted against us. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to continue to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that we may obtain could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 Certain university and other relationships are important to our business and may potentially result in conflicts of interests. Dr. John Kellum and others, are critical care advisors and consultants of ours and are associated with institutions such as the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Their association with these institutions may currently or in the future involve conflicting interests in the event they or these institutions enter into consulting or other arrangements with competitors of ours. We have limited manufacturing experience, and once our products are approved, we may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities at an acceptable cost, or without shut-downs or delays. We are in the phase of product commercialization. We have received approval from our Notified Body to apply the CE Mark to our CytoSorb® device for commercial sale as a cytokine filter. CytoSorbents also achieved ISO 13485:2003 Full Quality Systems certification, an internationally recognized quality standard designed to ensure that medical device manufacturers have the necessary comprehensive management systems in place to safely design, develop, manufacture and distribute medical devices in the European Union. CytoSorbents manufactures CytoSorb® at its manufacturing facilities in New Jersey for sale in the E.U. and for additional clinical studies. We will need to maintain compliance on an ongoing basis. We have limited experience in establishing, supervising and conducting commercial manufacturing. If we or the third-party manufacturers of our products fail to adequately establish, supervise and conduct all aspects of the manufacturing processes, we may not be able to commercialize our products. While we currently believe we have established sufficient production capacity to supply potential near term demand for the CytoSorb® device, we will need to scale up and increase our manufacturing capabilities in the future. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully scale up our manufacturing capabilities or that we will have sufficient financial or technical resources to do so on a timely basis or at all. Due to our limited marketing, sales and distribution experience, we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to sell our products. We expect to enter into agreements with third parties for the commercial manufacture and distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that parties we may engage to market and distribute our products will: •satisfy their financial or contractual obligations to us; •adequately market our products; or •not offer, design, manufacture or promote competing products. If for any reason any party we engage is unable or chooses not to perform its obligations under our marketing and distribution agreement, we would experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs, which would harm our business and financial results. If we are unable to convince physicians and other health care providers as to the benefits of our products, we may incur delays or additional expense in our attempt to establish market acceptance. Broad use of our products may require physicians and other health care providers to be informed about our products and their intended benefits. The time and cost of such an educational process may be substantial. Inability to successfully carry out this education process may adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We may be unable to educate physicians regarding our products in sufficient numbers or in a timely manner to achieve our marketing plans or to achieve product acceptance. Any delay in physician education may materially delay or reduce demand for our products. In addition, we may expend significant funds towards physician education before any acceptance or demand for our products is created, if at all. The market for our products is rapidly changing and competitive, and new devices and drugs, which may be developed by others, could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our technologies and products noncompetitive or obsolete. We also may be unable to keep pace with technological developments and other market factors. Technological competition from medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities and budgets than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. 42 If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of medical devices is subject to government control. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of medical devices and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”). Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical care. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and medical devices, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for our products. The cost containment measures that health care payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to operate profitably. CytoSorb® is currently reimbursable in Germany and Austria. We plan to seek reimbursement for our product in other E.U. and non-E.U. countries to help further adoption. There can be no assurance when, or if, this additional reimbursement might be approved. Investment Risks Connected to our Securities Directors, executive officers and principal stockholders own a significant percentage of the shares of Common Stock, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders together beneficially own a significant percentage of the voting control of the Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. One of our Directors represents an institutional investor which holds approximately 48% of our Series B Preferred Stock. Accordingly, these stockholders could have a significant influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and also could prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership. Our Series A Preferred Stock provides for the payment of penalties. Immediately following our June 30, 2006 merger, we issued 5,250,000 shares of Series A 10% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock with an aggregate stated value of $5,250,000. We issued an additional 5,752,268 shares of Series A Preferred Stock through December 31, 2011 to additional investors, as dividends and in connection with the settlement of amounts owed to certain investors due to our failure to timely register shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock. Net of cumulative conversions into Common Stock through April 1, 2012, the Company has a total of 1,447,159 shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. We will likely issue additional shares of this series of preferred stock in the future as dividends. The Certificate of Designation designating the Series A Preferred Stock provides that upon the following events, among others, the dividend rate with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock increases to 20% per annum, which dividends would then be required to be paid in cash: •the occurrence of “Non-Registration Events”; •an uncured breach by us of any material covenant, term or condition in the Certificate of Designation or any of the related transaction documents; and 43 •any money judgment or similar final process being filed against us for more than $100,000. In addition, the registration rights provided for in the subscription agreement we entered into with the purchasers in this offering: •required us to file a registration statement with the SEC on or before 120 days from the closing to register the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and exercise of the Warrants, and cause such registration statement to be effective by February 25, 2007 (240 days following the closing); and •entitles each of these investors to liquidated damages in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the purchase price of the Series A Preferred Stock if we fail to timely file that registration statement with, or have it declared effective by, the SEC. Because the registration statement we agreed to file was not declared effective within the time required under our agreements with the June 30, 2006 purchasers of the Series A Preferred Stock, dividends on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to those purchasers accrued at the rate of 20% per annum from February 26, 2007 until May 7, 2007, the date the registration statement was declared effective. Additionally during this time period, we were obligated to pay those purchasers cash dividends and an aggregate of $105,000 per 30-day period from February 26, 2007 through the date such registration statement was declared effective. Pursuant to a settlement agreement with the June 30, 2006 purchasers of Series A Preferred Stock, all cash dividends and damages were paid for in full with additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The Certificate of Designation, Subscription Agreement and related transaction documents also provide for various penalties and fees for breaches or failures to comply with provisions of those documents, such as the timely payment of dividends, delivery of stock certificates, and obtaining and maintaining an effective registration statement with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock and Warrants sold in the offering. We may in the future default in our contractual obligations to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, and in such event we may be required to pay liquidated damages in cash or additional shares of Preferred Stock. Our Series B Preferred Stock provides for the payment of penalties. Immediately following our June 2008 and August 2008 private placement, we issued a total of 52,931.47 shares of Series B 10% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock with an aggregate stated value of $5,293,147. We issued an additional 41,717.97 shares of Series B Preferred Stock through December 31, 2012 to additional investors, and as dividends. Net of cumulative conversions into Common Stock through April 1, 2013, the Company has a total of 72,073.26 shares of Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. We will likely issue additional shares of this series of preferred stock in the future as dividends. The Certificate of Designation designating the Series B Preferred Stock provides that upon the following events, among others, the dividend rate with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock increases to 20% per annum: •the occurrence of “Non-Registration Events”; •an uncured breach by us of any material covenant, term or condition in the Certificate of Designation or any of the related transaction documents; and 44 •any money judgment or similar final process being filed against us for more than $100,000. In addition, the registration rights provided for in the subscription agreement we entered into with the purchasers in this offering: •required us to file a registration statement with the SEC on or before 180 days from the Initial Closing to register the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, and cause such registration statement to be effective by February 21, 2009 (240 days following the Initial Closing) or March 23, 2009 if the reasons for delay are solely due to SEC delay; and •entitles each of these investors to liquidated damages in an amount equal to two percent (2%) of the purchase price of the Series B Preferred Stock if we fail to timely file that registration statement with, or have it declared effective by, the SEC. The Company submitted an original S-1 registration statement to the SEC on December 12, 2008. The SEC replied with comments and a request to reduce the number of shares to be registered. In May 2010, the Company filed to withdraw this registration statement. The Company intends to amend and refile the registration statement. The Company has received a waiver from a majority of the Series B holders for the non-registration event and the timing of the Series B registration does not create a cross-default of the Series A Preferred Series. There can be no assurance that the Company will receive such waiver from investors for any future items and no assurance the Company will still not incur penalties or prevent an Event of Default from occurring. The Certificate of Designation, Subscription Agreement and related transaction documents also provide for various penalties and fees for breaches or failures to comply with provisions of those documents, such as the timely payment of dividends, delivery of stock certificates, and obtaining and maintaining an effective registration statement with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying the Series B Preferred Stock sold in the offering. We may in the future default in our contractual obligations to the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock, and in such event we may be required to pay liquidated damages in cash or additional shares of Preferred Stock. Anti-Dilution Provisions Of The Series B Preferred Stock The conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock issued to the June and August 2008 purchasers of our Series B Preferred Stock are subject to anti-dilution provisions, so that upon future non-excepted issuances of our Common Stock or equivalents thereof, subject to specified customary exceptions, at a price below the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock, such conversion price will be reduced on a weighted average basis, further diluting holders of our Common Stock. Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have priority in the event of our dissolution, liquidation or winding up. In the event of our dissolution, liquidation or winding up, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will receive, in priority over the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock, a liquidation preference. Therefore, it is possible that holders of Series A Preferred Stock and Common Stock will not obtain any upon our dissolution, liquidation or winding up. Redemption Provisions Of The Series B Preferred Stock Following the fifth anniversary of the initial closing, the holders of a majority of the Series B Preferred Stock, including NJTC if it then holds 25% of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock initially purchased by it, may elect to require us to redeem all, but not less than all, of their shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the original purchase price for such shares plus all accrued and unpaid dividends whether or not declared, if the market price of our Common Stock is then below the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock. The Company is currently not required to redeem any Series B Preferred Stock. Penny Stock Regulations May Affect Your Ability To Sell Our Common Stock. To the extent the price of our Common Stock remains below $5.00 per share, our Common Stock will be subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker dealers which sell these securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors" must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our Common Stock and may make it more difficult for holders of our Common Stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. The sale of our common stock to LPC may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by LPC could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In connection with entering into a funding agreement with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“LPC”) in December 2011, we authorized the issuance to LPC of up to $8,500,000 worth of shares of our common stock plus 1,634,615 shares of common stock as additional commitment shares. The purchase price for the common stock to be sold to LPC pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. 39,634,615 shares of common stock have been registered pursuant to an S-1 registration statement declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). It is anticipated that these registered shares will be sold over a period of up to 32 months from the date of Purchase Agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, a sale of shares pursuant to the Purchase Agreement at any given time could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We can elect to direct purchases in our sole discretion. After LPC has acquired such shares, it may sell all, some or none of such shares. Therefore, sales to LPC by us under the agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under the Purchase Agreement, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to LPC and the agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. 45 Our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue and fix the terms of shares of preferred stock and issue additional shares of common stock adversely affecting the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with such designation rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. We have designated 12,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 200,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock as described above. Subject to the rights of the holders of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock, our Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 87,800,000 additional shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Currently, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock, of which approximately 10,043,947 shares remain available for issuance and may be issued by us or issued through conversions of preferred stock or convertible notes without stockholder approval. However, pursuant to N.R.S. 78.315, the Board of Directors and a majority of the shareholders of the Company have approved the filing of an Amended Articles of Incorporation of the Company increasing the number of authorized shares of common stock to eight hundred million (800,000,000) shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share. The filing should be effective in April 2013. On January 3, 2013, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes (“N.R.S.”) 78.320, the Company received written consents in lieu of a meeting of Stockholders from twenty-one (21) Stockholders holding 12,517,118 shares of Common Stock and 71,834.74 shares of Series B Preferred Stock representing 51.5% of the 480,747,190 possible votes outstanding after dilution of the Series B Preferred Stock (the “Majority Stockholders”), approving the Amended Articles of Incorporation of the Company. On March 12, 2013, the Company filed a Preliminary 14C Information Statement with the SEC. The Company filed a Definitive 14C Information Statement on March 22, 2013, and the Amended Articles of Incorporation of the Company will become effective 20 days thereafter. The increase in authorized shares does not mean that the Company is issuing additional shares in connection with the Amendment. As with all public companies, the authorized share amount sets a maximum number of shares that the Company may issue. Issuances of additional shares of common stock and/or preferred stock may be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Our Charter Documents and Nevada Law May Inhibit A Takeover That Stockholders May Consider Favorable. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and Nevada law, could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide stockholders with a premium to the market price of their Common Stock. The authorization of undesignated preferred stock, for example, gives our board the ability to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to effect a change in control of us, or otherwise adversely affect holders of Common Stock in relation to holders of preferred stock. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expense. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations will require an increased amount of management attention and external resources. In addition, prior to the merger, our current management team was not subject to these laws and regulations, as the Company was a private corporation. We intend to continue to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, which may result in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our Common Stock is thinly traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we may be unable to obtain listing of our common stock on a more liquid market. Our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which provides significantly less liquidity than a securities exchange (such as the New York Stock Exchange) or an automated quotation system (such as the Nasdaq Stock Market). There is uncertainty that we will ever be accepted for a listing on an automated quotation system or securities exchange. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. This information is not required for smaller reporting companies. 