ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our liquidity, financing, and capital structure Our indebtedness could limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations or to refinance the obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. As of December 31, 2009, our total consolidated long-term debt (including current maturities) exceeds our total assets. The degree to which we are leveraged continues to have substantial negative consequences, because: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to interest payments and therefore is not available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • our existing credit agreement limits our ability to acquire businesses and incur indebtedness required to finance such acquisitions; • we are more highly leveraged than our major national competitors, which places us at a competitive disadvantage; • it makes us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general; and • we are vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. The degree to which we are leveraged may also have substantial future negative consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our Senior Facility due September 2011 and our senior subordinated notes due April 2012, including our ability and our decision to make interest payments thereunder when due and payable; • our ability to finance and consummate transactions that may be critical to our strategic and financial condition could be limited; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited. We will likely need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, on or before maturity. However, current market conditions could limit our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Accordingly, we may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including our Senior Facility and our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure, including filing for bankruptcy protection, which likely would result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our current credit agreement contains certain financial covenants, including requirements regarding certain specified minimum thresholds for EBITDA (i.e., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). Failure to comply with covenants contained in our current Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, result in the termination of commitments by lenders, declarations that all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, be immediately due and payable, lenders could elect to exercise control over our cash through their rights under the deposit account and control agreement, and foreclosure proceedings could be instituted against those assets that secure the borrowings under our credit agreement. Furthermore, in the event that lenders caused all outstanding amounts with respect to the credit agreement debt to be due and payable immediately, it would simultaneously result in a cross default under the indenture governing our 9 1/2 % senior subordinated notes. If accelerated, upon an event of default, our assets and cash flow would be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including the Senior Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to maintain current levels of collectibility of our accounts receivable likely would have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flow. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from patients and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from patients under co-insurance provisions. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines after which they will not pay submitted claims. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of collectibility or that third-party payors will not experience financial difficulties. We may be unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, which likely would result in a significant decline in our operating cash flows. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a service sponsored and operated by The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which is an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the NASDAQ Stock Market. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like NASDAQ or a stock exchange like Amex. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. In addition, as an OTC Bulletin Board listed company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on NASDAQ or any other regional or national exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These and other factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities, and may make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares in the open market when eligible to do so. The wide fluctuations in trading prices, as well as general economic, market and political conditions such as interest rate increases, recessions or military or political conflicts, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, thereby causing you to lose some or all of your investment. 23 Table of Contents Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, including Rule 15g-9, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors,” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth, or joint net worth with the person’s spouse, that exceeds $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock, and some investors may perceive our securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock are concentrated in a small number of stockholders which, acting together, could exercise significant influence over certain aspects of our business. As of December 31, 2009, our four largest stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, any of these large stockholders acting independently could work to frustrate the majority. 24 Table of Contents Risks related to our reliance on Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party reimbursement A significant percentage of our business is derived from patients with primary health coverage under Medicare Part B, and as such, any decreases in Medicare Part B reimbursement rates are likely to have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. As a home medical equipment (HME) provider, we are heavily dependent on Medicare reimbursement with approximately 42% of our revenue reimbursed under Medicare Part B. There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control health care costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical equipment and services. Medicare reimbursement is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, administrative and executive orders and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially decrease payments to us for the services and equipment we provide. Recent legislation containing provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the primary HME products that we provide have had a material adverse affect on our revenue, profitability, profit margins, operating cash flows and results of operations. This recent legislation includes, but is not limited to: • Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA). MIPPA delayed the implementation of a Medicare competitive bidding program for oxygen equipment and certain other HME items that was scheduled to begin on July 1, 2008 and instituted a 9.5% price reduction nationwide for these items as of January 1, 2009. • Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (“SCHIP Extension Act”). The SCHIP Extension Act reduced Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. • Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA). DRA provisions negatively impacted reimbursement for oxygen equipment beginning in 2009 and negatively impacted reimbursement for HME items subject to capped rental payments beginning in 2007. • Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA). MMA significantly reduced reimbursement for inhalation drug therapies beginning in 2005, reduced payment amounts for certain categories of DME, including oxygen, beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for other covered HME items through 2007, established a competitive acquisition program for HME and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for HME suppliers. These legislative provisions, as currently in effect and when fully implemented, have had and will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. The impact of recent reimbursement changes are discussed in more detail under the heading “Business—Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1. In addition, there continue to be several legislative initiatives at the federal and state levels affecting the payment for oxygen, oxygen equipment and related services. Currently pending at the federal level are a number of proposals in both the Senate and House of Representatives that would substantially change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. At this time, it is unclear whether the proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these or any other proposals would have on our business. Recent regulatory changes subject the Medicare reimbursement rates for our equipment and services to additional reductions and to potential discretionary adjustment by CMS, which could reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment (HME), including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. The regulation 25 Table of Contents implementing the inherent reasonableness authority establishes a process for adjusting payments for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The final December 2005 regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and its contractors (the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors or DME MACs) to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what a realistic and equitable payment amount is. Also, under the regulation, CMS and its contractors will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. The implementation of the inherent reasonableness procedure itself does not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services and to date, no payment adjustments have occurred or been proposed under this inherent reasonableness procedure. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS reduced the reimbursement for HME to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative (LCA) treatment that met the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. LCA determinations have been applied to particular products and services by CMS and its contractors through the notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME—a process not required for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness authority or LCA determinations, CMS and its contractors may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. With respect to its LCA policies, on October 16, 2008, a U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia held that CMS did not have authority to implement LCA determinations in setting payment amounts for covered inhalation drugs. As a result, CMS contractors withdrew their LCA policy for DuoNeb that was scheduled to be implemented on November 1, 2008 (discussed in more detail below). Federal law establishing a competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Recent legislation (see “Business—Government Regulation—Medicare Laws and Regulations” in Part I, Item 1 above) instructs CMS to establish and implement programs under which competitive bidding areas (CBAs) will be established throughout the United States for contract award purposes for the furnishing of competitively priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment. We had been awarded contracts for 9 of the 10 CBAs. On July 15, 2008, however, the United States Congress, following an override of a Presidential veto, enacted the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA), which retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for eighteen months and terminates all existing contracts previously awarded. As discussed above, on January 16, 2009, CMS published an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) addressing the MIPPA provisions that affect round one of the competitive bidding program. The MIPPA changes that were addressed in this IFC did not alter the fundamental requirements of the final regulation for the competitive bidding program published on April 10, 2007. Until the competitive bidding program is implemented, those items selected for competitive acquisition for round one will be paid under the fee schedules, although, effective January 1, 2009, MIPPA decreased 2008 fee schedule payment amounts by 9.5% for product categories included in competitive bidding. MIPPA negatively impacted our revenue and net income by approximately $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Until such time that the bids are awarded and the associated fee schedules and participating providers are announced, we will not be able to determine the full impact of competitive bidding, nor can we predict at this time the effect the process will have on our ability to continue to provide products to Medicare beneficiaries. Future reductions in reimbursement rates under Medicaid could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. 26 Table of Contents Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. In addition to cost containment initiatives associated with Medicare and Medicaid, we are affected by continuing efforts by private third-party payors to control their costs. If we lower our prices due to pricing pressures from private third-party payors, then our results of operations and financial condition would likely deteriorate. Private payors continually seek to control the cost of providing health care services through direct contracts with health care providers, increased oversight and greater enrollment of patients in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by the health care provider of all or a portion of the financial risk. Reimbursement payments under private payor programs may not remain at current levels and may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs, and we may suffer deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by private third-party payors. We may be compelled to lower our prices due to increased pricing pressures, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to deteriorate. Medicare surety bond requirements could result in significant additional cost in operating our business. Effective October 2, 2009, all HME suppliers, except those that are government operated, were required to obtain and furnish a $50,000 surety bond to the National Supplier Clearinghouse, the Medicare contractor responsible for enrollment, for each Medicare supplier number held (one per operating location). The surety bond requirement is designed to limit the Medicare program risk from fraudulent equipment suppliers and help to ensure that those suppliers who remain in the program furnish only items to Medicare beneficiaries that are considered reasonable and necessary from legitimate HME suppliers. We obtained surety bonds October 1, 2009 in the face amount of $22.5 million covering all of our NPI numbers at each of our locations. The collateral requirement for these surety bonds is $6.7 million. While the annual cost of obtaining these surety bonds is not currently material, there can be no assurance that future changes in the surety bond market will not result in increases to such annual cost or the associated collateral requirements. If we are unable to maintain surety bonds for our operating locations or to the extent that the issuing surety requires substantial additional collateral, these surety bond requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Risks related to our compliance with federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as accreditation standards Our pharmacy location and operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal authorities and there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with such regulations. Under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, the FDA imposes stringent regulations on the distribution, labeling, and other aspects of our medical gas and pharmacy operations. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain licenses from each state to which we deliver such pharmaceuticals. We are therefore subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws can vary significantly from state to state and, while we continuously monitor state activities and changes in the law, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with all laws and regulations that may apply to our pharmacy operations in particular jurisdictions. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our license in a particular state or for other reasons. Failure 27 Table of Contents to comply with applicable FDA and other federal regulatory requirements can result in possible legal or regulatory action, such as warning letters, product seizure or recalls, suspension of operations, temporary or permanent injunctions, or possible civil or criminal penalties. Failure to comply with applicable state regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension or failure to renew our state pharmacy licenses, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. Our business, including our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program, is subject to extensive laws and government regulations. Failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to severe sanctions and have a significant negative impact on our operations. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including: • billing practices including substantiation and record keeping requirements; • prohibitions on fraud and abuse, kickbacks, rebates and fee splitting; • licensing and certification requirements; • confidentiality, privacy and security issues in connection with medical records and patient information; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of durable medical equipment and other medical equipment; • handling, distribution and disposal of pharmaceutical products and medical waste; • quality assurance; and • occupational safety. Existing United States laws governing Medicare and state health care programs such as Medicaid, as well as similar laws enacted in many states, impose a broad variety of prohibitions on soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration, payment or benefit for the referral of a patient for services or products reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions or “safe harbors” for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate these prohibitions. Violation of these prohibitions may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare and state health care programs. The federal and state Stark Laws impose a broad range of restrictions upon referring physicians (and their immediate family) and providers of certain designated health services under Medicare and state health care programs, including restrictions on financial relationships between the referring physicians and the providers of the designated health care services. Services that we provide are classified as designated health services and fall within the regulatory scope of the Stark Laws. Significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties may be imposed for violation of these laws. We are also subject to strict licensing and safety requirements by the federal government and many states. Furthermore, many state laws prohibit physicians from sharing professional fees with non-physicians and prohibit non-physician entities, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing physicians to practice medicine. In addition, both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. 28 Table of Contents Further, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS and the Department of Justice (DOJ) have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. In 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the DHHS to settle claims against Rotech Medical Corporation relating to certain Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, we or our executives could be included in other governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, demands from the government for refunds or recoupment of amounts previously paid to us by the government, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Some statutory and regulatory provisions, principally in the area of billing, have not been interpreted by the courts and may be interpreted or applied in a manner that might adversely affect us. Changes in health care laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on our business and results of operations. Lack of accreditation of our operating locations or failure to meet government standards for coverage could result in a decline in our revenues. Currently, all of our operating locations are accredited by the Joint Commission (formerly referred to as the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations). If future reviews by the Joint Commission do not result in continued accreditation of our operating locations, we would likely experience a decline in our revenues. Further, under the MMA, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for home medical equipment and certain supplies and has a supplier number for submission of claims must be accredited as meeting quality standards issued by CMS as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. The standards for HME suppliers consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management requirements, which are applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, and which focus on product specialization and service standards. The product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and power and manual wheelchairs and other mobility equipment. We have revised our policies and procedures to ensure compliance in all material respects with the quality standards. The MMA also authorized CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for home medical equipment. These clinical conditions for payment could limit or reduce the number of individuals who can sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. Some clinical conditions have been implemented, such as the requirement for a face-to-face visit by treating physicians for beneficiaries seeking power mobility devices. In addition, because we have Medicare supplier numbers and are subject to clinical conditions for payment, our failure to meet such conditions could affect our ability to bill and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions will have on our business. We are subject to periodic audits by governmental and private payors. We are subject to periodic audits by Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the oversight agencies for these programs have authority to assert remedies against us if they determine we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These agencies could seek to require us to repay any overcharges or amounts billed in violation of program requirements, or could make deductions from future amounts otherwise due to us from these programs. We could also be subject to fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Private payors also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of recent efforts by government payors to reduce health care costs. 29 Table of Contents Compliance with regulations under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules (“HIPAA”) relating to the transmission and privacy of health information could impose additional significant costs on our operations. Numerous federal and state privacy and security laws and regulations, including HIPAA as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), govern the use and disclosure of patients’ individually-identifiable health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with privacy standards concerning the use and disclosure of such health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA also requires the adoption of standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as the processing of claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures. Each set of HIPAA regulations requires health care providers, including us, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. Moreover, HITECH requires us to report certain breaches of unsecured, individually identifiable health information to the extent such breaches occur. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPPA. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to significant criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. Risks related to operational and financial performance Inability to maintain significant vendor relationships could result in a significant disruption in our business, materially adversely affect our results of operations and result in an inability to serve our patients if we lose these relationships. We currently have certain critical vendor relationships. Although we have been able to maintain such relationships without material interruption in the past, there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue. Should any of these vendors elect not to provide services, equipment, inhalation drugs or supplies to us, there would likely be a significant disruption to our business, a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations and an inability to serve our patients until such time as a replacement vendor could be identified. This would likely occur if there is a deterioration or perceived deterioration in our financial position, including our standing with respect to our senior subordinated debt. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the pricing structure that we currently enjoy would be matched by a replacement vendor. Additionally, any future issues with liquidity, debt covenant compliance or declines in our results of operations, could adversely impact our ability to leverage our purchasing activities with new or existing vendors. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. 30 Table of Contents We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we have discovered and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Based upon management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If we do not enhance and maintain effective and efficient information systems, then our operations may be disrupted and our anticipated operating efficiency may not be realized. Our operations are dependent on the enhancement and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to enhance and maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and prevent us from achieving operating efficiency. Increases in our costs could erode our profit margins and substantially reduce our net income and cash flows. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. We may write off additional intangible assets. As a result of the implementation of “fresh-start” reporting during 2002, the assets and liabilities of Rotech Medical Corporation were revalued, which resulted in approximately $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill. Due to an overall decline in our profitability which resulted primarily from a series of decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates, and the resulting decline in our market capitalization, we have fully written off the $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill through non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $529.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $163.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Other goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of purchased operations. In addition, we wrote off the balance of our other goodwill, $48.4 million, during 2008 resulting in a total impairment charge of $207.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008. Any future acquisitions by us will likely result in the recognition of additional intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. 31 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims arising from investigations and legal proceedings, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to investigations and litigation in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we are from time to time involved in other legal proceedings. While Management does not believe that any lawsuit we (or our predecessor) are a party to, if resolved adversely, would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations, investigations and litigation could arise in the future which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. Further, since the date of confirmation of the plan of reorganization, we have not and our predecessor has not received any correspondence from a state challenging the pre-petition discharge of claims. If the coverage limits on our insurance policies are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Participants in the health care industry, including us, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance premiums will be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. In the event that we purchase equipment from competitors exiting the HME market and are unable to successfully transition and retain the associated patients on service with our Company, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives in 2010 and beyond. During 2009, we purchased $10.5 million of new and used rental equipment and inventory from competitors exiting the home medical equipment market. Most of the equipment purchased in these transactions is currently on rent and located in a patient’s home. We believe that we will be successful in identifying additional equipment purchase opportunities during 2010, and that we will be able to successfully transition and retain a high percentage of the associated patients onto service with our Company. However, in the event that we are unable to successfully transition and retain the associated patients on service with our Company or we are unable to identify additional equipment purchase opportunities, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives in 2010 and beyond. We are highly dependent upon information technology systems and infrastructure. We regularly back up our data and maintain detailed disaster recovery plans. However, a major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to information systems could adversely affect our business. Additionally, loss of information systems for a sustained period of time could have a negative impact on our performance and ultimately on cash flow in the event we were unable to process transactions and/or provide services to our customers. Risks related to competition and referral sources If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to build volume that justifies discounted prices. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are now provided by a small number of managed care organizations and third-party payors. These organizations, including the Veterans 32 Table of Contents Administration, generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent such organizations terminate or do not renew agreements with us and/or engage our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, including the Veterans Administration, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, then our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relations with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees, and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, then our revenues may decline. We experience competition from numerous other home medical equipment providers, and this competition could result in deterioration in our revenues and business. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers but most of which are either regional or local providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new patients are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service, a professional staff with clinical and technical expertise and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Walgreens Co. The rest of the market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as hundreds of smaller companies with under $5 million in estimated annual revenues. Many of the smaller, owner-operated home medical equipment providers may have a higher level of service quality that is difficult to replicate. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home health care markets. The competitive nature of the home medical equipment environment could result in deterioration in our revenues and our business. Risks related to recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified employees and directors We are highly dependent on our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could result in a decline in our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Philip L. Carter, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success is dependent on the ability of our managers and sales personnel to manage and promote our business, operations and growth. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to hire qualified management and other personnel, or if costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, then our ability to deliver equipment and services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel. Our highest cost is in the payment of salaries to our approximately 3,800 full time employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. Further, in the event that our business operations or financial condition further deteriorate, we may not be able to maintain or recruit critical employees. 33 Table of Contents We may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve as members of our Board of Directors. Our board of directors is currently comprised of five members. Due to our current financial condition and the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve on our board if required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 