Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Associated with Real Estate The recent market disruptions may significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The recent recession in the United States has resulted in increased unemployment, weakening of tenant financial condition, large-scale business failures and tight credit markets. Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact tenant leasing practices. A continuation of ongoing adverse economic conditions affecting tenant income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs and other matters, could reduce overall tenant leasing or cause tenants to shift their leasing practices. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. At this time, it is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our tenants and our business in general. A general reduction in the level of tenant leasing could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current tenants and gain new tenants, affecting our growth and profitability. Accordingly, continuation or further worsening of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, profitability and results of operations. Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Our strategy includes opportunistically selling properties that do not have the potential to meet our Community Centered Property strategy. However, real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the Code imposes restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which could cause us to incur extended losses, reduce our cash flows and adversely affect distributions to shareholders. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. To the extent we are unable to sell any properties for our book value, we may be required to take a non-cash impairment charge or loss on the sale, either of which would reduce our net income. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. We may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These transfer restrictions would impede our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. These facts and any others that would impede ourability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our business is dependent upon our tenants successfully operating their businesses, and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully and profitably operate our business. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties we own in a manner which generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties in a manner so as not to jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants to fulfill their obligations under our leases may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations. Cash flow generated by certain tenant businesses may not be sufficient for a tenant to meet its obligations to us. Our financial position could be weakened and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our indebtedness could be limited if a number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us or failed to renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire, or if we were unable to lease or re-lease our properties on economically favorable terms. These adverse developments 5Table of Contentscould arise due to a number of factors, including those described in the risk factors discussed in this annual report. Turmoil in capital markets could adversely impact acquisition activities and pricing of real estate assets. Volatility in capital markets could adversely affect acquisition activities by impacting certain factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage backed securities in the market. These factors directly affect a lender’s ability to provide debt financing as well as increase the cost of available debt financing. As a result, we may not be able to obtain favorable debt financing in the future or at all. This may impair our ability to acquire properties or result in future acquisitions generating lower overall economic returns, which may adversely affect our results of operations and distributions to shareholders. Furthermore, any turmoil in the capital markets could adversely impact the overall amount of capital available to invest in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets. The value of investments in our common shares will be directly affected by general economic and regulatory factors we cannot control or predict. Investments in real estate typically involve a high level of risk as the result of factors we cannot control or predict. One of the risks of investing in real estate is the possibility that our properties will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments. The following factors may affect income from properties and yields from investments in properties and are generally outside of our control: • conditions in financial markets; • over-building in our markets; • a reduction in rental income as the result of the inability to maintain occupancy levels; • adverse changes in applicable tax, real estate, environmental or zoning laws; • changes in general economic conditions; • a taking of any of our properties by eminent domain; • adverse local conditions (such as changes in real estate zoning laws that may reduce the desirability of real estate in the area); • acts of God, such as earthquakes or floods and other uninsured losses; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. Some or all of these factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. All of our properties are subject to property taxes that may increase in the future, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Our properties are subject to property taxes that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed by taxing authorities. We anticipate that most of our leases will generally provide that the property taxes, or increases therein, are charged to the lessees as an expense related to the properties that they occupy. As the owner of the properties, however, we are ultimately responsible for payment of the taxes to the government. If property taxes increase, our tenants may be unable to make the required tax payments, ultimately requiring us to pay the taxes. In addition, we will generally be responsible for property taxes related to any vacant space in our properties. 6Table of ContentsCompliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. The ADA and other federal, state and local laws generally require public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require us to modify our existing properties. These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features which increase our construction costs. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. We may incur unanticipated expenses that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations to comply with ADA and other federal, state and local laws, or in connection with lawsuits brought by private litigants. We face intense competition, which may decrease, or prevent increases of, the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. We compete with a number of developers, owners and operators of commercial real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents charged. Risks Associated with Our Operations Because of the current lack of geographic diversification of our portfolio, an economic downturn in the Houston metropolitan area could adversely impact our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The majority of our assets and revenues are currently derived from properties located in the Houston metropolitan area. As of December 31, 2010, we had 75% of our gross leasable square feet in Houston. Our results of operations are directly contingent on our ability to attract financially sound commercial tenants. A significant economic downturn may adversely impact our ability to locate and retain financially sound tenants and could have an adverse impact on our tenants’ revenues, costs and results of operations and may adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Likewise, we may be required to lower our rental rates to attract desirable tenants in such an environment. Consequently, because of the lack of geographic diversity among our current assets, if the Houston metropolitan area experiences an economic downturn, our operations and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely impacted. We lease our properties to approximately 800 tenants, with approximately 10% to 20% of our leases expiring annually. Each year we face the risk of non-renewal of a material percentage of our leases and the cost of re-leasing a significant amount of our available space, and our failure to meet leasing targets and control the cost of re-leasing our properties could adversely affect our rental revenue, operating expenses and results of operations. While the nature of our business model warrants shorter term leases to smaller, non-national tenants, as of December 31, 2010, approximately 36% of the aggregate gross leasable area of our properties is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2012. We are subject to the risk that: • tenants may choose not to, or may not have the financial resources to, renew these leases; • we may experience significant costs associated with re-leasing a significant amount of our available space; • we may not be able to easily re-lease the space subject to these leases, which may cause us to fail to meet our leasing targets or control the costs of re-leasing; and • the terms of any renewal or re-lease may be less favorable than the terms of the current leases. If any of these risks materialize, our rental revenue, operating expenses and results of operations could be adversely affected. Many of our tenants are small businesses, which may have a higher risk of bankruptcy or insolvency. 7Table of ContentsMany of our tenants are small, local businesses with little capital that depend on cash flows from their businesses to pay their rent and are therefore at a higher risk of bankruptcy or insolvency than larger, national tenants. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a number of smaller tenants may have an adverse impact on our income and our ability to pay dividends. We receive substantially all of our income as rent payments under leases of our properties. We have no control over the success or failure of our tenants’ businesses and, at any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, our tenants may fail to make rent payments when due or declare bankruptcy. For example, on November 10, 2008, one of our tenants, Circuit City, which leased space at one of our properties and represented approximately 1.1% of our total rent for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The tenant elected to reject our lease. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of the leases, we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the space and find a suitable replacement tenant. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease the space on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, or successfully reposition the space for other uses. If any lease expires or is terminated, we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that portion of the property until it is re-leased. If we experience a significant number of un-leased spaces, our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating expenses may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and the trading price of our common shares. Any bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants could bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or seize its property. A tenant bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the leases and could ultimately preclude collection of all or a portion of these sums. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if any, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Furthermore, dealing with a tenant’s bankruptcy or other default may divert management’s attention and cause us to incur substantial legal and other costs. If one or more of our tenants files for bankruptcy relief, the Bankruptcy Code provides that a debtor has the option to assume or reject the unexpired lease within a certain period of time. The Bankruptcy Code generally requires that a debtor must assume or reject a contract in its entirety. Thus, a debtor cannot choose to keep the beneficial provisions of a contract while rejecting the burdensome ones; the contract must be assumed or rejected as a whole. However, where under applicable law a contract (even though it is contained in a single document) is determined to be divisible or severable into different agreements, or similarly, where a collection of documents is determined to constitute separate agreements instead of a single, integrated contract, then in those circumstances a debtor/trustee may be allowed to assume some of the divisible or separate agreements while rejecting the others. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect our returns. We attempt to adequately insure all of our properties to cover casualty losses. However, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. In some instances, we may be required to provide other financialsupport, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for these losses. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large insurance premiums, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash to be distributed to shareholders as dividends. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common 8Table of Contentslaw principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos containing materials into the air. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for payments of dividends to our shareholders. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities, which may impede our growth and negatively affect our results of operations. Our ability to expand through acquisitions is integral to our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable acquisition or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our acquisition criteria or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms or at all. Failure to identify or consummate acquisitions or investment opportunities, or to integrate successfully any acquired properties without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems, would slow our growth. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms may be constrained by the following significant risks: • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly-traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • competition from other potential acquirers which may significantly increase the purchase price for a property we acquire, which could reduce our growth prospects; • unsatisfactory results of our due diligence investigations or failure to meet other customary closing conditions; and • failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may face significant competition in our efforts to acquire financially distressed properties and debt. Our acquisition strategy is focused on distressed commercial real estate, and we could face significant competition from other investors, such as publicly-traded REITs, hedge funds, private equity funds and other private real estate investors with greater financial resources and access to capital than us. Therefore, we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of purchasers competing for suitable investments may increase, all of which could result in competition for accretive acquisition opportunities and adversely affect our business plan and our ability to maintain our current dividend rate. Our success depends in part on our ability to execute our Community Centered Property strategy. Our Community Centered Property strategy requires intensive management of a large number of small spaces and small tenant relationships. Our success will depend in part upon our management’s ability to identify potential Community Centered Properties and find and maintain the appropriate tenants to create such a property. Lack of market acceptance of our Community Centered Property strategy or our inability to successfully attract and manage a large number of tenant relationships could adversely affect our occupancy rates, operating results and dividend rate. Loss of our key personnel, particularly our eight senior managers, could threaten our ability to execute our strategy and operate our business successfully. We are dependent on the experience and knowledge of our key executive personnel, particularly our eight senior managers who have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until qualified replacements could be found. We also believe that they could not quickly be replaced with managers of equal experience and capabilities and their successors may not be as effective. Our systems may not be adequate to support our growth, and our failure to successfully oversee our portfolio of properties 9Table of Contentscould adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our portfolio management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to support any growth we may experience. Our failure to successfully oversee our current portfolio of properties or any future acquisitions or developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash dividends or that dividends will increase over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash dividends to shareholders. Dividends will be based principally on cash available from our properties, real estate securities, mortgage loans and other investments. The amount of cash available for dividends will be affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties, the yields on securities of other real estate programs that we invest in, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain dividends or that dividends will increase over time. In addition, we can give no assurance that rents from the properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased dividends over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for dividends to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of trustees, or our board, in establishing the dividend rate to shareholders. If we experience decreased cash flows, we may need to use other sources of cash to fund dividends or we may be unable to pay dividends. Actual cash available for dividends may vary substantially from estimates. If our cash dividends exceed the amount of cash available for dividends, we may need to fund the shortage out of working capital or by obtaining additional debt, which would reduce the amount of proceeds available for real estate investments. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, tenant performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.Recent healthcare reform legislation may affect our revenue and financial condition. On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and on March 30, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which in part modified the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Together, the two Acts serve as the primary vehicle for comprehensive health care reform in the United States. The Acts are intended to reduce the number of individuals in the United States without health insurance and effect significant other changes to the ways in which health care is organized, delivered and reimbursed. The complexities and ramifications of the new legislation are significant, and will be implemented in a phased approach beginning in 2010 and concluding in 2018. At this time, the effects of health care reform and its impact on our business, our revenues and financial condition and those of our tenants are not yet known. Accordingly, the reform could adversely affect the cost of providing healthcare coverage generally and the financial success of our tenants and consequently us. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing Current market conditions could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing for growth on acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow, our interest cost and our results of operations. The United States credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of various types of debt financing. Reductions in our available borrowing capacity, or inability to establish a credit facility when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we mortgage most of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If we are not successful in refinancing our mortgage debt upon maturity, then the property could be foreclosed 10Table of Contentsupon or transferred to the mortgagee, or we might be forced to dispose of some of our properties upon disadvantageous terms, with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure or disadvantageous disposal on one or more of our properties could adversely affect our ability to grow, financial condition, interest cost, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well. If interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could adversely affect our transaction and development activity, financial condition, results of operation, cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If we invest in mortgage loans, such investments may be affected by unfavorable real estate market conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, which could decrease the value of those loans and our results of operations. If we invest in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of defaults by the borrowers on those mortgage loans as well as interest rate risks. To the extent we incur delays in liquidating such defaulted mortgage loans, we may not be able to obtain sufficient proceeds to repay all amounts due to us under the mortgage loans. Further, we will not know whether the values of the properties securing the mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of those mortgage loans. If the values of the underlying properties fall, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the security associated with such loans. We may incur losses on interest rate hedging arrangements. Periodically, we have entered into agreements to reduce the risks associated with increases in interest rates, and may continue to do so. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness which is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent which the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. Our failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. We currently have mortgages that bear interest at a variable rate and we may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. Accordingly, increases in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could reduce net earnings and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to our shareholders. We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. In the past, we have used derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our variable rate borrowings. We will not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but we may choose to change this practice in the future. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements for our variable rate debt, which totals $25.4 million as of December 31, 2010. Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. We currently have and may incur additional mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. If it is determined to be in our best interests, we may, in some instances, acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur or increase our current mortgage debt to obtain funds to acquire additional properties. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, or otherwise as may be necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We may incur mortgage debt on a particular property if we believe the property’s projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $100.9 million of mortgage debt secured by 23 of our properties. If there is a shortfall in cash flow, however, the amount available for dividends to shareholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because defaults on such indebtedness may result in loss of 11Table of Contentsproperty in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give lenders full or partial guarantees for mortgage debt incurred by the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by that entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one property may be affected by a default. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders will be adversely affected. For more discussion, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we set aside insufficient working capital or are unable to secure funds for future tenant improvements, we may be required to defer necessary property improvements, which could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is possible that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we may be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. If we have insufficient working capital reserves, we will have to obtain financing from other sources. Because most of our leases will provide for tenant reimbursement of operating expenses, we do not anticipate that we will establish a permanent reserve for maintenance and repairs for our properties. However, to the extent that we have insufficient funds for such purposes, we may establish reserves for maintenance and repairs of our properties out of cash flow generated by operating properties or out of non-liquidating net sale proceeds. If these reserves or any reserves otherwise established are insufficient to meet our cash needs, we may have to obtain financing from either affiliated or unaffiliated sources to fund our cash requirements. We cannot assure you that sufficient financing will be available or, if available, will be available on economically feasible terms or on terms acceptable to us. Additional borrowing for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore our financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected. In addition, we may be required to defer necessary improvements to our properties that may cause our properties to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to our properties. If this happens, we may not be able to maintain projected rental rates for effected properties, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We may structure acquisitions of property in exchange for limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility. We may acquire properties by issuing limited partnership units in our Operating Partnership in exchange for a property owner contributing property to the Operating Partnership. If we enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such properties to accept units in our Operating Partnership, rather than cash, in exchange for their properties, it may be necessary for us to provide them with additional incentives. For instance, our Operating Partnership’s limited partnership agreement provides that any holder of units may exchange limited partnership units for cash, or, at our option, common shares on a one-for-one exchange basis. We may, however, enter into additional contractual arrangements with contributors of property under which we would agree to redeem a contributor’s units for our common shares or cash, at the option of the contributor, at set times. If the contributor required us to redeem units for cash pursuant to such a provision, it would limit our liquidity and thus our ability to use cash to make other investments, satisfy other obligations or pay distributions. Moreover, if we were required to redeem units for cash at a time when we did not have sufficient cash to fund the redemption, we might be required to sell one or more properties to raise funds to satisfy this obligation. Furthermore, we might agree that if distributions the contributor received as a limited partner in our Operating Partnership did not provide the contributor with a defined return, then upon redemption of the contributor’s units we would pay the contributor an additional amount necessary to achieve that return. Such a provision could further negatively impact our liquidity and flexibility. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of a property to defer taxable gain on the contribution of property to our Operating Partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed property for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor’s units for cash or our common shares. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those properties, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us. Our ability to issue preferred shares may include a preference in distributions superior to our common shares and also may deter or prevent a sale of our common shares in which you could profit. Our declaration of trust authorizes our Board to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred shares. Our Board has the discretion to establish the preferences and rights, including a preference in distributions superior to our common shareholders, of any issued preferred shares. If we authorize and issue preferred shares with a distribution preference over our common 12Table of Contentsshares, payment of any distribution preferences of outstanding preferred shares would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common shares. Further, holders of preferred shares are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common shareholders, likely reducing the amount our common shareholders would otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred shares or a separate class or series of common shares may render more difficult or tend to discourage: • a merger, tender offer or proxy contest; • assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our shares; or • removal of incumbent management. Risks Associated with Income Tax Laws If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our operations and dividends to shareholders would be adversely impacted. We intend to continue to be organized and to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws, possibly with retroactive effect, with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: • we would not be allowed to deduct our distributions to shareholders when computing our taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions; • our cash available for dividends to shareholders would be reduced; and • we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations that we may incur as a result of our disqualification. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to determine that (i) we failed the 5% asset test for the first quarter of our 2009 taxable year and (ii) our failure of that test was not attributable to reasonable cause, but rather, willful neglect, we would fail to qualify as a REIT for our 2009 taxable year, which would adversely affect our operations and our shareholders. We recently discovered that we may have inadvertently violated the 5% asset test for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 as a result of utilizing a certain cash management arrangement with a commercial bank. If this investment in a commercial paper investment account is not treated as cash, and is instead treated as a security for purposes of the quarterly 5% asset test applicable to REITs, then we have failed that test for the first quarter of our 2009 taxable year. If the IRS were to assert that we failed the 5% asset test for the first quarter of our 2009 taxable year and that such failure was not due to reasonable cause, and the courts were to sustain that position, our status as a REIT would terminate as of December 31, 2008. We would not be eligible to again elect REIT status until our 2014 taxable year. Consequently, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates and our cash available for distributions to shareholders would be reduced. Additionally, if we in fact failed the 5% test, but failure is considered due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, we would be subject to a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or 35% of the net income from the commercial paper investment account during the period in which we failed to satisfy the 5% asset test. The amount of such tax is $50,000 and we paid such tax on April 27, 2010. 13Table of Contents We may need to incur additional borrowings to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirement and to avoid excise tax. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual real estate investment trust taxable income (excluding any net capital gain and before application of the dividends paid deduction). In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our net capital gain for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. Although we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders in a manner that allows us to meet the 90% distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to do so. Our income consists almost solely of our share of our Operating Partnership’s income, and the cash available for distribution by us to our shareholders consists of our share of cash distributions made by our Operating Partnership. Because we are the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, our Board determines the amount of any distributions made by it. Our Board may consider a number of factors in making distributions, including: • the amount of the cash available for distribution; • our Operating Partnership’s financial condition; • our Operating Partnership’s capital expenditure requirements; and • our annual distribution requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses when determining our taxable income, as well as the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures and the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis or make taxable distributions to our shareholders of our shares or debt securities to meet the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% excise tax described above. In these circumstances, we may need to borrow funds to avoid adverse tax consequences even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for borrowings or that borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of the tax consideration. If our Operating Partnership were classified as a “publicly traded partnership” taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes under the Code, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and would suffer other adverse tax consequences. We structured our Operating Partnership so that it would be classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. In this regard, the Code generally classifies “publicly traded partnerships” (as defined in Section 7704 of the Code) as associations taxable as corporations (rather than as partnerships), unless substantially all of their taxable income consists of specified types of passive income. In order to minimize the risk that the Code would classify our Operating Partnership as a “publicly traded partnership” for tax purposes, we placed certain restrictions on the transfer and/or redemption of partnership units in our Operating Partnership. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to assert successfully that our Operating Partnership is a “publicly traded partnership,” and substantially all of its gross income did not consist of the specified types of passive income, the Code would treat our Operating Partnership as an association taxable as a corporation. In such event, the character of our assets and items of gross income would change and would prevent us from continuing to qualify as a REIT. In addition, the imposition of a corporate tax on our Operating Partnership would reduce our amount of cash available for payment of distributions by us to our shareholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting 14Table of Contentssecurities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% (through the end of 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through taxable REIT subsidiaries. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because any taxable REIT subsidiary that we may form would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in taxable REIT subsidiaries will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiaries. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Shares Maryland takeover statutes may deter others from seeking to acquire us and prevent you from making a profit in such transactions. The Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, contains many provisions, such as the business combination statute and the control share acquisition statute, that are designed to prevent, or have the effect of preventing, someone from acquiring control of us. Our Board can amend our bylaws, without shareholder approval, to exempt us from the control share acquisition statute (which eliminates voting rights for certain levels of shares that could exercise control over us), and our Board has adopted a resolution opting out of the business combination statute (which, among other things, prohibits a merger or consolidation with a 10.0% shareholder for a period of time) with respect to our affiliates. However, if these provisions of Maryland law were to apply, they could delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if such a transaction would be in our shareholders’ best interest. The MGCL, Maryland REIT Law and our organizational documents limit your right to bring claims against our officers and trustees. The MGCL and the Maryland REIT Law provide that a trustee will not have any liability as a trustee so long as he 15Table of Contentsperforms his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interest, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our declaration of trust provides that we may indemnify our trustees and officers to the maximum extent allowed by Maryland law. Under the MGCL and the Maryland REIT law, no trustee or officer will be liable to us or to any shareholder for money damages except to the extent that (a) the trustee or officer actually received an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, for the amount of the benefit or profit in money, property, or services actually received; or (b) a judgment or the final adjudication adverse to the trustee or officer is entered in a proceeding based on a finding in the proceeding the trustee’s or officer’s action or failure to act was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty and was material to the cause of action adjudicated in the proceeding. Our classified Board may prevent others from effecting a change in the control of our Board. We believe that classification of our Board will help to assure the continuity and stability of our business strategies and policies as determined by the Board. However, the classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent trustees more time-consuming and difficult. At least two annual meetings of shareholders, instead of one, will generally be required to effect a change in a majority of our Board. Thus, the classified board provision could increase the likelihood that incumbent trustees will retain their positions. The staggered terms of trustees may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. Additional issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to stockholders. The interests of our stockholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future developments or acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. We may authorize the issuance of additional equity securities without stockholder approval. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including revolving credit facilities and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including the issuance of common equity. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our Class B common shares. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies' operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our Class B common shares. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations. Either of these factors could lead to a material decline in the market price of our Class B common shares. 16Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 