ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the section entitled "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses, a limited operating history and may not achieve profitability in the future. Although we were profitable for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we have not been profitable for any fiscal period since we were formed. We generated net losses of $7.9 million in fiscal 2005 (twelve months), $7.2 million in fiscal 2006 (nine months), and $0.2 million in fiscal 2007 (twelve months). As of September 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $31.3 million. We commenced operations in July 2001 and, therefore, we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business, including our ability to increase our revenue. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods in order to remain profitable. We may never achieve sustained profitability, and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our direct sales force and develop and enhance our software and service solutions and for general corporate purposes, including marketing, services and sales operations, hiring additional personnel, upgrading our infrastructure and expanding into new geographical markets. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. If we are unable to remain profitable, the market price of our common stock may fall. 14 Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and within each period, which makes our operating results difficult to predict and could cause our revenues, expenses and profitability to differ from expectations during certain periods, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period or within certain periods as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Given these fluctuations and our limited operating history, you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Each of the risks described in this section, as well as other factors, may affect our operating results. For example, factors that could affect our revenues and operating results include, but may not be limited to, the following: •fluctuations in the demand for our products and maintenance renewals; •the timing and size of customer orders, including the concentration of orders at the end of each quarter, and the increasing average sale price per transaction; •the possibility that our customers may cancel, defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets; •the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our software in anticipation of new software or updates from us or our competitors; •the timing of recognizing revenue as a result of revenue recognition rules; •our ability to develop, introduce and deploy new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; •our ability to access capital and control expenses; •changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; •the timing of new product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; •seasonality associated with demand for our products and services; and •changes in general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. In addition, these factors could negatively impact our results of operations and cause us to fail to meet the financial performance expectations of securities industry research analysts or investors in future periods, which would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our industry is intensely competitive, and most of our competitors have greater financial, technical and sales and marketing resources and larger installed customer bases than we do, which could enable them to compete more effectively than we do. The data center automation software market is intensely competitive, highly fragmented and characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product introductions, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. Many of our primary competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as larger installed customer bases, greater name recognition and broader product offerings, including, in some cases, hardware. These competitors can devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products than we can and have the ability to bundle their hardware and software products in a combined offering. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. 15 It is a costly and time-consuming process to change data center automation software. Some prospective customers have installed earlier generations of data center automation software, which gives an incumbent competitor an advantage in retaining a customer because it already understands the network infrastructure, user demands and information technology needs of the customer, and also because some customers are reluctant to change providers. In addition, because we offer organizations the ability to automate their operations, we also compete against an organization's internal operations department, which may prefer to use their internally-developed tools to manage their own operations. This may particularly be the case with larger organizations, which represent one of our key target markets. Our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. If so, new competitors or alliances that include our competitors may emerge and could acquire significant market share. In addition, we believe that there will be continued consolidation within the markets in which we compete. Our competitors may consolidate with one another, or acquire other technology providers, enabling them to compete with us more effectively. This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that would impede our ability to compete successfully and harm our business. Increased competition could harm our business by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to existing products and respond to technological changes, if our new products or enhancements do not achieve market acceptance or if we fail to manage product transitions, our results of operations and competitive position will suffer. Our ability to compete in this highly competitive market depends in large part upon our ability to continuously anticipate and identify changing customer needs and to introduce and market new products, technologies, features and functionalities that meet those needs in a timely manner. As a result, we spend substantial amounts of time and money to research, develop and market new products and enhanced versions of our products to incorporate additional features, improve functionality or provide other enhancements, such as an ever-expanding configuration item database. The pressure on us to innovate is particularly great given that our product offerings are not as broad as certain of our competitors. Almost all of our revenue is derived from our software for server and application management, including from professional services and technical support associated with such software. Therefore, it is critical to our success that we develop and introduce new products or enhancements that anticipate and meet changing customer needs in this market and successfully incorporate the latest technological advancements. When we develop a new product or an advanced version of an existing product, we typically expend significant money and effort upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. Therefore, if our new products or enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, our revenue will be diminished and the effect on our operating results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we incurred in connection with the new product or enhancement. In addition, the introduction of new products or enhancements by us in future periods may also reduce demand for our existing products. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must successfully manage the transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers' ordering patterns and avoid having to support excessive levels of older installed product. 16 Our inability to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified employees, in particular sales personnel and software development engineers, or the loss of a member of our senior management team, including our founders, may impair our ability to grow our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and marketing, managerial and administrative personnel. As our customer base and revenue continue to grow, we will need to hire a significant number of qualified personnel both domestically and abroad. In particular, our ability to grow our revenue depends on talented and motivated sales personnel performing at a high level and our ability to enhance and maintain our technology depends on talented software development engineers with specialized skills. Competition for highly skilled sales and technical individuals is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain sales and technical personnel. Furthermore, changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the sizes or types of stock options that job candidates may require to accept our offer of employment. In addition, the level of performance of our sales personnel and their ability to quickly contribute to our business is dependent on our ability to successfully identify high quality candidates and train new employees. If we fail to identify, attract, train, integrate and retain highly qualified and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future success also depends on the continued service and performance of our senior management team, including our founders. The replacement of members of our senior management team likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of any of these individuals may delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our software solutions are highly technical and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our software solutions are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, are critical to the operation of many data centers. Our solutions have contained and may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our solutions may only be discovered after being installed and used by customers. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our software after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and may adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 17 Our failure to offer high quality maintenance and professional services and maintain strong customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Our software provides a comprehensive data center automation solution that enables organizations of any size to achieve continuous compliance across large-scale, distributed server and application environments. Further, once our software solutions are deployed, our customers depend on us to resolve issues relating to the use of our software solutions. A high level of service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our software. If we or our partners do not effectively work with our customers in the installation or deployment of our solutions, or succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, it could adversely affect our ability to sell software products to existing customers and could harm our reputation with potential customers. Our ongoing service offerings also provide us with an opportunity to broaden the types of products we provide to a particular customer, introduce existing customers to our new products or product enhancements and expand the use of a particular product to a customer's other operating or geographic divisions. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality maintenance and professional services and maintain strong customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on our sales of software solutions and results of operations. We have experienced a period of significant growth in recent years, and our inability to manage this growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, the quality of our products and services and our ability to retain key personnel. We have experienced a period of significant growth in recent years. Our revenues increased 155% for fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006, and the number of our customers increased significantly during that period. Our growth has placed increased demands on our management and other resources and will continue to do so in the future. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, manage our expanding operations effectively or achieve planned growth on a timely or profitable basis. Managing our growth effectively will involve, among other things: •continuing to retain, motivate and manage our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, particularly qualified sales personnel; •continuing to provide a high level of service to an increasing number of customers; •maintaining the quality of product and services offerings while controlling our expenses; •growing and training our direct sales force; •developing new sales channels that broaden the distribution of our software and services; and •developing, implementing and improving our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase revenues and profitability, the quality of our data center automation software, the quality of our services offerings and our ability to retain key personnel. These factors could adversely affect our reputation in the market and our ability to generate future sales from new or existing customers. Incorrect or improper use of our software solutions or the actual or perceived failure of our services to provide expected results may result in negative publicity, reduced profitability and loss of market share. Our software solutions are deployed in a wide variety of server and application environments. The proper use of our software requires training by the end user and, if our software products are not used correctly or as intended, inaccurate results may be produced. Our customers may incorrectly implement 18 or use our products. Our solutions may also be intentionally misused or abused by customers or non-customer third parties who obtain access and use of our products. In addition, our customers utilize our products and services in part to reduce the likelihood of outages and minimize security vulnerabilities, so the occurrence of a high profile server outage or security breach at one of our customers could result in public and customer perception that our products and services are not effective, even if the occurrence is unrelated to the use of our products or services. The incorrect or improper use of our software solutions or the actual or perceived failure of our services to provide expected results may result in negative publicity, reduced profitability and loss of market share. We encounter long sales and implementation cycles, particularly for our larger customers, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. Potential or existing customers, particularly larger organizations, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. Sales of our core software products to these larger customers often require an extensive education and marketing effort. We could expend significant funds and resources during a sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: •a prospect's budgetary constraints; •the timing of a prospect's budget cycles and approval processes; •a prospect's willingness to replace their current software solutions; •our need to educate a prospect about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and •the timing of the prospect's previous license of earlier, similar software products. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales, it could have a material adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenues. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes and evolving customer demands with new software and services offerings that provide functionality superior to that of our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We may fail to develop and market software and services that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards, experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these solutions and services or fail to develop solutions and services that adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. The introduction of software solutions embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could make our existing and future software solutions obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, the inclusion of, or the announcement of intent to include, functionality perceived to be similar to that offered by our products in products that are already generally accepted as necessary components of data servers may have an adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Even if the functionality offered by other providers is more limited than our products, a significant number of customers may elect to accept such limited functionality in lieu of adding an additional information technology vendor. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their data servers and have established deep relationships with other providers of other data server products, which may make them reluctant to add new components, particularly from new vendors with a limited operating history. In addition, an organization's existing vendors or new vendors with a broad product offering may be able to offer concessions that we are not able to match because we currently offer only a single line of products and have fewer resources than many of our competitors. If organizations are reluctant to add additional software products from new 19 vendors or otherwise decide to work with their existing vendors, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our future plans include significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. We develop software solutions that interoperate with and support operating systems developed by others, and if the developers of those operating systems do not cooperate with us or we are unable to devote the necessary resources so that our solutions interoperate with and support those systems, our software development efforts may be delayed or foreclosed and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our software operates primarily on the Windows, Linux and SUN Solaris operating systems and supports those operating systems and others including VMware ESX, AIX and HP-UX, pursuant to available application program interfaces. When new or updated versions of these operating systems are introduced, it is often necessary for us to develop updated versions of our software so that it properly interoperates with and supports these systems. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively. These development efforts require substantial capital investment, the devotion of substantial employee resources and the cooperation of the providers of the operating systems. For some operating systems, we must obtain some proprietary application program interfaces from the owner in order to develop software that interoperates with and supports the operating system. Operating system owners have no obligation to assist in these development efforts. If they do not provide us with assistance or the necessary application program interfaces on a timely basis, we may experience delays or be unable to expand our software applications into other areas. We expect to rely increasingly on indirect sales channels, such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, original equipment manufacturers and corporate resellers, for the distribution of our software solutions, and the failure of these channels to effectively sell our software solutions could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our revenues. We expect to increasingly rely on our value-added resellers, systems integrators, original equipment manufacturers and corporate resellers, which we collectively refer to as resellers, for the marketing and distribution of our software solutions and services. Although direct sales are our most significant distribution channel, we expect resellers to account for an increasing portion of our sales growth. However, our agreements with resellers are generally not exclusive, are generally renewable annually and in many cases may be terminated by either party without cause. Many of our resellers carry software solutions that are competitive with ours. These resellers may give a higher priority to other software solutions, including those of our competitors, or may not continue to carry our software solutions at all. If a number of resellers were to discontinue or reduce the sales of our products, or were to promote our competitors' products in lieu of our applications, it would have a material adverse effect on our future revenues. Events or occurrences of this nature could seriously harm our sales and results of operations in the future. In addition, we expect that a significant portion of our sales growth will depend upon our ability to identify and attract new reseller partners. We believe that our competitors also use reseller arrangements. Our competitors may be more successful in attracting reseller partners and could enter into exclusive relationships with resellers that make it difficult to expand our reseller network. Any failure on our part to expand our network of resellers could impair our ability to grow revenues in the future. 20 Our international sales and operations expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our overall operating results. We have significant sales offices outside the United States, particularly in Europe, and derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these offices. In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our research and development activities at our facility in Pune, India. We plan to expand our international sales and operations in the future. Our international operations are subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries, including: •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing our international operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; •foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls; •general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe and in other periods in other countries, could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, including those pertaining to export duties and quotas, trade and employment restrictions; •longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple languages; and •political and economic instability, war or acts of terrorism. Our overall success in international markets also depends upon our ability to increase adoption rates by foreign-based companies of our software products and services and to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. For example, as we continue to expand our operations internationally, our technical support organization will face the additional challenge of delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure to manage additional business risks associated with international sales and operations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets. Because we incorporate encryption technology into our products, our products are subject to United States export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or pursuant to an export license exception. In addition, various countries regulate the importation of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers' ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations 21 or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others could materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our success depends significantly upon proprietary technology in our software, documentation and other written materials. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of: •patents; •copyright and trademark laws; •trade secrets; •confidentiality procedures; and •contractual provisions. These methods afford only limited protection. Despite this limited protection, any issued patent may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business. Further, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, and any patents issued to us may not be timely or sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights. We may also develop proprietary products or technologies that cannot be protected under patent law. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our software applications or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software is difficult, and unauthorized use may be a problem in the future. In licensing our software applications, we sometimes rely on "click wrap" licenses which are downloaded over the Internet. We may have difficulty enforcing these licenses in some jurisdictions. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the extent that the laws of the United States protect our proprietary rights. Our attempts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our software or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, from time to time we are participants or members of various industry standard-setting organizations or other industry technical organizations, which may, in some circumstances, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties regarding our intellectual property under terms established by those organizations which we may not find favorable. Additionally, the loss of key personnel involved with developing, managing or maintaining our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our business. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business. Third parties could claim that our products or technology infringe on their proprietary rights. We expect that infringement claims may occur as the number of products and competitors in our market increases. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could 22 prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our use of open source and third-party software could negatively affect our business and subject us to possible litigation. We incorporate open source software into our software solutions. We monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding our products and technologies. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-engineer our solutions or to discontinue the sale of our solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products and may need to utilize additional third-party technologies in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. These delays, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to grow our business, develop or enhance our software and services, or respond to competitive pressures. We may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to grow our business, including through the acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies, products or technologies, although no acquisitions or investments are currently pending or planned. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions or otherwise in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We have no plans, nor are we currently considering any proposals or arrangements, written or otherwise, to acquire a business, technology, product or service. 23 We have no experience with acquiring other companies and our future efforts to do so may subject us to significant costs without the realization of the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. To date, we have had very little experience completing acquisitions or managing the integration of acquisitions. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to successfully complete or integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire or seek to acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Furthermore, any future acquisitions, if completed, would subject us to many risks, including: •diversion of management's attention during the acquisition and integration process; •costs, delays and difficulties of integrating the acquired company's operations, products, technologies and personnel into our existing operations and organization; •difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •adverse impact on earnings as a result of amortizing the acquired company's intangible assets or impairment charges related to write-downs of goodwill related to acquisitions; •issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders; •potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired companies; •impact on financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or failure to meet operating expectations for acquired businesses; and •assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired company. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs of the acquisitions or may result in other adverse effects. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology, and in particular for data center automation software, and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The market we serve is emerging and the purchase of our products involves material changes to established purchasing relationships. In addition, the purchase of our solutions is often viewed as discretionary and involves a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions, or a reduction in information technology spending even if economic conditions improve, would likely have an adverse impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, lower prices for our solutions and services and reduced unit sales. We expect to pursue sales to governments and governmental entities and, as a result, significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of governments and governmental entities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in government contracting policies or government budgetary constraints could directly affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among the factors that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are: •changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding; •changes in government programs or applicable requirements; •the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; •the need to hire additional personnel with adequate government security clearances; 24 •potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies to refrain from purchasing the products and services that we offer in the future, the result of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints. The award of additional contracts from government agencies could be adversely affected by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at government agencies that are likely to utilize our products and services. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize our product software license revenue in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position, or SOP, 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, and related amendments and interpretations contained in SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition with Respect to Certain Transactions. The AICPA and its Software Revenue Recognition Task Force continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards, including SOP 97-2 and SOP 98-9, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue recognition accounting policies that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future we may have to defer recognition for license fees due to several factors, including whether a transaction involves: •software arrangements that include undelivered elements for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; •requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements and modifications to customize our software for a particular customer; or •material acceptance criteria. Because of these factors and other specific requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our software arrangements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend our sales cycle, and we may accept terms and conditions that do not permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations. Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and website. Most of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Lexington, Massachusetts. We also have a research and development facility in Pune, India, which has in the past experienced flooding and 25 earthquakes. We also have sales and operations in various other domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners' and customers' businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners' or customers' businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to timely complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. Effective internal reporting controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively detect and prevent fraud. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008 to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence. Also, the lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may adversely impact our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Stock Our common stock has a very limited trading history and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. Prior to our initial public offering in July 2007, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to obtain new customers and retain and generate expanded business from our existing customers; •variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; •changes in financial estimates, treatment of our tax assets or liabilities or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; •the public's response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance or interpretations or principles; •sales of common stock by our directors, officers and significant stockholders; •announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; 26 •our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts' projections; •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; •broad market and industry factors; and •other events or factors beyond our control, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. The market prices of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research reports and opinions that securities or industry analysts publish about our business. Investors have numerous investment opportunities and may limit their investments to publicly traded companies that receive thorough research coverage. If one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively about our prospects or the prospects of other companies operating in our industry, our stock price could decline significantly. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price and make it difficult for you to recover the full value of your investment in our shares. We have only been a public company since July 2007. For the three month period ended September 30, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been less than 225,000 shares. If our existing stockholders or their distributors sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. Our stockholders that held our stock prior to our initial public offering now hold approximately 76% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders will not be contractually prohibited from selling these shares following the 180-day lock-up period following our initial public offering, which is scheduled to expire on January 20, 2008, subject to certain extensions. In addition, after the expiration of the lock-up period, we will not be contractually prohibited from issuing and selling additional shares of our common stock. Any sale by us or our current stockholders of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Substantially all of the holders of our common stock prior to our initial public offering have rights, subject to some limited conditions, to demand that we file a registration statement on their behalf to register their shares or that we include their shares in a registration statement that we file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. If such demand rights are exercised pursuant to the terms and conditions of the registration rights agreement and we are required to file an additional registration statement, we will incur significant expenses in connection with the filing of such registration statement. Additionally, the filing of an additional registration statement at the request of the stockholders may divert the attention of our senior management from our business operations. 27 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; •provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings or taking action by written consent; •provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, restated by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 