Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Associated with Real Estate Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore we may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on the ability of a REIT to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which could cause us to incur extended losses and reduce our cash flows and adversely affect distributions to shareholders. Turmoil in capital markets could adversely impact acquisition activities and pricing of real estate assets. Volatility in capital markets could adversely affect acquisition activities by impacting certain factors including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the significant inventory of unsold collateralized mortgage backed securities in the market. These factors directly affect a lender’s ability to provide debt financing as well as increase the cost of available debt financing. As a result, we may not be able to obtain favorable debt financing in the future or at all. This may result in future acquisitions generating lower overall economic returns, which may adversely affect our results of operations and distributions to shareholders. Furthermore, any turmoil in the capital markets could adversely impact the overall amount of capital available to invest in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets. The value of investments in our common shares will be directly affected by general economic and regulatory factors we cannot control or predict. We only own commercial real estate. Investments in real estate typically involve a high level of risk as the result of factors we cannot control or predict. One of the risks of investing in real estate is the possibility that our properties will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments. The following factors may affect income from properties and yields from investments in properties and are generally outside of our control: • conditions in financial markets; • over-building in our markets; • a reduction in rental income as the result of the inability to maintain occupancy levels; • adverse changes in applicable tax, real estate, environmental or zoning laws; • changes in general economic conditions; 4 • a taking of any of our properties by eminent domain; • adverse local conditions (such as changes in real estate zoning laws that may reduce the desirability of real estate in the area); • acts of God, such as earthquakes or floods and other uninsured losses; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. Some or all of these factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) and other federal, state and local laws generally require public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require us to modify our existing properties. These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features which increase our construction costs. Legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. We may incur unanticipated expenses that may be material to our financial condition or results of operations to comply with ADA and other federal, state and local laws, or in connection with lawsuits brought by private litigants. Competition could limit our ability to lease our properties or increase or maintain rental income. There are numerous alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting tenants. Our properties compete directly with other commercial properties which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease our properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents charged. Risks Associated with Our Operations There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash dividends or that dividends will increase over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash dividends to shareholders. Dividends will be based principally on cash available from our properties, real estate securities, mortgage loans and other investments. The amount of cash available for dividends will be affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties, the yields on securities of other real estate programs that we invest in, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain dividends or that dividends will increase over time. In addition, we can give no assurance that rents from the properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased dividends over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for dividends to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our Board in establishing the dividend rate to shareholders. 5 If we experience decreased cash flows, we may need to use other sources of cash to fund dividends or we may be unable to pay dividends. Actual cash available for dividends may vary substantially from estimates. If our cash dividends exceed the amount of cash available for dividends, we may need to fund the shortage out of working capital, borrowings under our lines of credit or by obtaining other debt, which would reduce the amount of proceeds available for real estate investments. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our cash provided from operating activities was $4.6 million and our total distributions were $9.5 million. Therefore we had distributions in excess of cash flow for operations of approximately $4.9 million. Our primary funding for paying dividends in excess of cash flow from operations was borrowing from our credit facility and the increase in the debt on our Windsor Park Centre mortgage loan. Because of the lack of geographic diversification of our portfolio, an economic downturn in the Texas metropolitan areas could adversely impact our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The majority of our assets and revenues are currently derived from properties located in Texas metropolitan areas. Our results of operations are directly contingent on our ability to attract financially sound commercial tenants. If Texas experiences a significant economic downturn, our ability to locate and retain financially sound tenants may be adversely impacted. Likewise, we may be required to lower our rental rates to attract desirable tenants in such an environment. Consequently, because of the lack of geographic diversity among our current assets, if Texas experiences an economic downturn, our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders could be adversely impacted. Our Properties have significant deferred maintanence which will affect our ability to lease the properties, the types of tenants we are able to attract, and cash flow available for dividends In 2007 we had property condition assessments (“PCA’s”) performed on 20 of our properties. The PCA’s were performed as a result of the litigation with our former External Manager and were to determine the amount of deferred maintanence that existed on the properties as of October 2006. The PCA’s indicated that approximately $25 million in deferred maintanence existed on our properties as of October 2006. The majority of these repairs relate to roofing ($10.3 million), parking lots ($3.6 million), structural ($3.3 million) and HVAC ($2.6 million). The significance of the deferred maintanence affects our ability to lease the vacant spaces and the types of tenants we are able to attract. During 2007 we began to address these needed repairs and spent approximately $1 million more on repairs than in 2006. Although we intend to judicially address the needed repairs over the next several years, they will have a significant affect on our cash available to pay dividends. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect our returns. We will attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. In some instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for these losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by these uninsured losses. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any sources of funding will be available to us for this purpose in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large insurance premiums, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash dividends to be distributed to shareholders. 6 Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos containing materials into the air. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for payments of dividends to our shareholders. There is no public trading market for our shares of common stock, making it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our common shares of beneficial interest. If you are able to find a buyer for your shares, you may not sell your shares to that buyer unless the buyer meets the suitability standards applicable to him or her, including any suitability standards imposed by the potential purchaser’s state of residence. Our declaration of trust also imposes restrictions on the ownership of common shares that will apply to potential transferees that may restrict your ability to sell your shares. In addition, our Board has delayed the implementation of our share redemption program. Even if this program is implemented in the future, our Board may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate the program at any time. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. You may not be able to sell your shares in the event of an emergency, and, if you are able to sell your shares, you may have to sell them at a substantial discount. We have acquired a majority of our properties, on a non “arms-length” basis, from entities controlled by the previous advisor and CEO, Allen R. Hartman. We acquired 27 of the 37 properties we owned as of December 31, 2007, from entities controlled by Mr. Hartman. We acquired these properties by paying cash or issuing our commons shares of beneficial interest or units of the Operating Partnership that are convertible into our common shares. No third parties were retained to represent or advise these selling entities or us, and the transactions were not conducted on an “arm’s-length” basis. Mr. Hartman had interests that differed from, and in certain cases conflicted with, his co-investors in these entities. Mr. Hartman received the following as a result of these transactions: • 897,117.19 units of the Operating Partnership that are convertible into our common shares, as adjusted to reflect the recapitalization, in consideration of Mr. Hartman’s general partner interest in the selling entities; • the ability to limit his future exposure to general partner liability as a result of Mr. Hartman no longer serving as the general partner to certain of the selling entities; and • the repayment of debt encumbering several of our properties that was personally guaranteed by Mr. Hartman. Mr. Hartman might not have been able to negotiate all of these benefits if the transactions were negotiated at arm’s length. Further, Mr. Hartman did not make any representations or warranties in regard to the properties or the selling entities (neither personally nor in his capacity as a general partner) in the documents evidencing the 7 transactions. Consequently, we essentially acquired the properties on an “as is” basis. Therefore, we will bear the risk associated with any characteristics of or deficiencies in these properties unknown at the closing of the acquisitions that may affect their valuation or revenue potential. Approximately 38% of our gross leasable area is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 38% of the aggregate gross leasable area of our properties is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2010. We are subject to the risk that: • tenants may choose not to renew these leases; • we may not be able to re-lease the space subject to these leases; and • the terms of any renewal or re-lease may be less favorable than the terms of the current leases. If any of these risks materialize, our cash flow and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Litigation with Allen R. Hartman and Hartman Management. We are currently involved in litigation with our former Chief Executive Officer, Allen R. Hartman, and manager and advisor, Hartman Management, L.P. While we intend to vigorously defend against claims brought by Mr. Hartman and Hartman Management and vigorously prosecute our claims against Mr. Hartman and Hartman Management, there can be no assurances that we will ultimately prevail. Even if we do ultimately prevail in these lawsuits, we may continue to incur significant legal costs to do so. For more discussion, see Legal Proceedings and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Commitments and Contingencies. Defending an adversarial shareholder campaign could be costly to shareholders, take managements attention from day to day business operations and interfere with the execution of our strategic plan. Our former Chief Executive Officer, Allen R. Hartman owns approximately 2.9% of the voting shares of the REIT. If Mr. Hartman were to convert his ownership interests in the Operating Partnership into REIT common shares, Mr. Hartman would own approximately 12.3% of the REIT’s voting shares. Mr. Hartman is also the general partner of a partnership which owns 1.2 million OP units which are convertible into REIT common shares. Mr. Hartman has mounted an adversarial shareholder campaign with our shareholders and has attempted to replace our current executive management and board of trustees. Defending this campaign could be costly to shareholders, take managements attention from day to day business operations and interfere with the execution of our strategic plan. Loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest and operations. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executive personnel. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for these key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect the value of our common shares of beneficial interest and operations. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing Our debt agreements impose limits on our operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The agreements relating to the debt we incur contain financial and operating covenants that may limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders. Our existing credit facilities contain financial and operating covenants, including: • debt service coverage of at least 1.4 to 1.0; 8 • loan-to-value ratio of a borrowing base pool to total funded loan balance of at least 1.67 to 1.00; • total debt not to exceed 60% of fair market value of our real estate assets; • the ratio of secured debt to fair market value of our real estate assets not to exceed 40%; • interest coverage ratio of at least 1.55 to 1.0; • we must hedge certain amounts of variable interest rate debt; • maintenance of specific levels of insurance; and • limitations on our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders, sell assets or engage in mergers, consolidation or make certain acquisitions. Failure to comply with these covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to fund our operations and conduct our business. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other debt agreements we may enter into in the future. A default could cause one or more of our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments which could force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms. For more discussion, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources We may incur losses on interest rate hedging arrangements. Periodically, we have entered into agreements to reduce the risks associated with increases in interest rates, and may continue to do so. Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness which is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent which the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject us to increased credit risks. We may incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks. If it is determined to be in our best interests, we may, in some instances, acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur or increase our current mortgage debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement described above, or otherwise as may be necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We may incur mortgage debt on a particular piece of real property if we believe the property’s projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. If there is a shortfall in cash flow, however, the amount available for dividends to shareholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because defaults on such indebtedness may result in loss of property in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give lenders full or partial guarantees for mortgage debt incurred by the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by that entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders will be adversely affected. 9 If we are unable to retain key personnel, our revolving credit facility could be in default and immediately due. In the event that James C. Mastandrea, for any reason, ceases to retain the title of Chief Executive Officer of the Trust and to perform the functions typically performed under such office and to be actively involved in strategic planning and decision-making for the Trust, unless within six months after such failure, the Board of Directors or Board of Trustees has duly elected or appointed a qualified substitute to replace such individual who is acceptable to our bank in its sole discretion, our bank may declare our loan in default and all amounts immediately due. In the event we have a change of control, our revolving credit facility could be in default and immediately due. If we have the occurrence of any transaction in which any “person” or “group” (within the meaning of Section 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the “beneficial owner” (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of a sufficient number of voting rights applicable to the Trust ordinarily entitled to vote in the election of directors or trustees, empowering such “person” or “group” to elect a majority of the Board of Directors or Board of Trustees of the Trust, who did not have such power before such transaction, our bank could declare our loan in default and all amounts immediately due. 10 Risks Associated with Income Tax Laws If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our operations and dividends to shareholders would be adversely impacted. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: • we would not be allowed to deduct our distributions to shareholders when computing our taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions; • our cash available for dividends would be reduced and we would have less cash to pay dividends to shareholders; and • we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of our disqualification. We may need to incur additional borrowings to meet REIT minimum distribution requirements. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Internal Revenue Code will subject us to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our net capital gain for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. Although we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders in a manner that allows us to meet the distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to do so. Our income consists almost solely of our share of the Operating Partnership’s income, and the cash available for distribution by us to our shareholders consists of our share of cash distributions made by the Operating Partnership. Because we are the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, our Board determines the amount of any distributions made by it. Our Board may consider a number of factors in making distributions, including: • the amount of the cash available for distribution; • the Operating Partnership’s financial condition; • the Operating Partnership’s capital expenditure requirements; and • our annual distribution requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 11 Differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses when determining our taxable income, as well as the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures and the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% excise tax described above. In these circumstances, we may need to borrow funds to avoid adverse tax consequences even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for borrowings or that borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of the tax consideration. Changes in the tax law may adversely affect our REIT status The discussions of the federal income tax considerations are based on current tax laws. Changes in the tax laws could result in tax treatment that differs materially and adversely from that described herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 