ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our liquidity, financing, and capital structure The crisis in the financial markets and sustained weakening of the economy could significantly impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may further limit our ability to raise additional funds. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and the rest of the world have been experiencing extensive disruption recently, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. In addition, the United States has entered into an economic recession which could, among other negative effects, increase unemployment and reduce expenditures from our customers. As a result, our ability to access the capital markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our current and future funding requirements and on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The current economic and market conditions could also result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services. In addition, the disruption of the securities and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to complete a strategic transaction with a third party. We are not able to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States. However, if economic conditions continue to worsen, it is possible these factors could result in a decline in our future profitability and cash from operating activities. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness, which continues to adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated long-term debt (including current maturities) exceeds our total assets. The degree to which we are leveraged continues to have substantial negative consequences, because: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to interest payments and therefore is not available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • our existing credit agreement limits our ability to acquire businesses and incur indebtedness required to finance such acquisitions; • we are more highly leveraged than our major national competitors, which places us at a competitive disadvantage; • it makes us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general; and • we are vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. The degree to which we are leveraged may also have substantial future negative consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012, including our ability and our decision to make interest payments thereunder when due and payable; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to finance and consummate transactions that may be critical to our strategic and financial condition could be limited; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited. In addition, because our current term loan is a payment-in-kind term loan facility due 2011, accrued interest is added to the principal amount on each interest payment date, provided that we may, at our election, pay any such accrued interest in cash on such date. We have not elected to pay any such accrued interest in cash since inception of the Senior Facility. Accordingly, all interest accrued to date has been added to the principal amount on the applicable interest payment dates (representing all accrued interest under the payment-in-kind term loan that became payable during such periods). Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We will likely need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure, including filing for bankruptcy protection, which likely would result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. We may need to pursue a strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transaction in order to preserve our long-term financial condition, and current market conditions could limit our ability to consummate such a transaction, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we continue to explore various strategic transactions, such as an acquisition, debt exchange or repurchase, equity offering, or a combination of any such transactions, the current conditions of the capital markets may curb our ability to pursue such transactions. In the event that market conditions preclude our ability to consummate such a transaction, we may be required to consider additional alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure, including filing for bankruptcy protection, which likely would result in our creditors receiving an amount that is less than the full amount of the debt owed them and the elimination of all value of our outstanding common stock. Our failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement would likely have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Our current credit agreement contains certain financial covenants, including requirements regarding certain specified minimum thresholds for EBITDA (i.e., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). Failure to comply with covenants contained in our current Credit Agreement could, under certain circumstances, result in the termination of commitments by lenders, declarations that all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, be immediately due and payable, lenders could elect to exercise control over our cash through their rights under the deposit account and control agreement, and foreclosure proceedings could be instituted against those assets that secure the borrowings under our credit agreement. Furthermore, in the event that lenders caused all outstanding amounts with respect to the credit agreement debt to be due and payable immediately, would simultaneously result in a cross default under the indenture governing our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes. If accelerated, upon an event of default, our assets and cash flow would be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including the Senior Facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to maintain current levels of collectibility of our accounts receivable likely would have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flow. We derive a significant majority of our revenues from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly 25 Table of Contents from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as from customers under co-insurance provisions. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the health care industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that services are rendered and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other health care providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines after which they will not pay submitted claims. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of collectibility or that third-party payors will not experience financial difficulties. We may be unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, which likely would result in a significant decline in our operating cash flows. Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a service sponsored and operated by The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which is an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the NASDAQ Stock Market. Trading in stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Bulletin Board is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like NASDAQ or a stock exchange like Amex. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. In addition, as an OTC Bulletin Board listed company, we do not attract the extensive analyst coverage that accompanies companies listed on NASDAQ or any other regional or national exchange. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These and other factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of our securities, and may make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares in the open market when eligible to do so. The wide fluctuations in trading prices, as well as general economic, market and political conditions such as interest rate increases, recessions or military or political conflicts, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, thereby causing you to lose some or all of your investment. Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, including Rule 15g-9, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors,” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth, or joint net worth with the person’s spouse, that exceeds $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the 26 Table of Contents penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock, and some investors may perceive our securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock are concentrated in a small number of stockholders which, acting together, could exercise significant influence over certain aspects of our business. As of December 31, 2008, our four largest stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, any of these large stockholders acting independently could work to frustrate the majority. Risks related to our reliance on Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party reimbursement Changes in the reimbursement methodology for oxygen equipment in use by a Medicare beneficiary are likely to have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, has made certain changes to the way Medicare Part B pays for certain of our HME products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment. For oxygen equipment, prior to the DRA, Medicare made monthly rental payments indefinitely, provided medical need continued. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for oxygen equipment at 36 months of continuous use, after which time ownership of the equipment would transfer to the beneficiary. For purposes of this cap, the DRA provides for a new 36-month rental period that began January 1, 2006 for all oxygen equipment. In addition to the changes in the duration of the rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment, the DRA permits payments for servicing and maintenance of the products after ownership transfers to the beneficiary. On November 1, 2006, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) released a final rule to implement the DRA changes, which went into effect January 1, 2007. Under the rule, CMS clarified the DRA’s 36-month rental cap on oxygen equipment. CMS also revised categories and payment amounts for the oxygen equipment and contents during the rental period and for oxygen contents after equipment ownership by the beneficiary as described below. With the passage of the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA) on July 15, 2008, transfer of title to oxygen equipment at the end of the 36-month rental cap was repealed, although the rental cap remained in place. Effective January 1, 2009, after the 36th continuous month during which payment is made for the oxygen equipment, the equipment is to continue to be furnished during any period of medical need for the remainder of the reasonable useful lifetime of the equipment. The reasonable 27 Table of Contents useful lifetime for stationary or portable oxygen equipment begins when the oxygen equipment is first delivered to the beneficiary and continues until the point at which the stationary or portable oxygen equipment has been used by the beneficiary on a continuous basis for five years (60 months) provided there are no breaks in service due to medical necessity. Computation of the reasonable useful lifetime is not based on the age of the equipment. During the capped rental period from months 37 through 60 of continuous use, payment is made only for oxygen contents and for certain reasonable and necessary maintenance and servicing (for parts and labor not covered by the supplier’s or manufacturer’s warranty). On October 30, 2008, CMS issued new oxygen payment rules and supplier responsibilities required by MIPPA. In the final rule, CMS determined that for liquid or gaseous oxygen equipment (stationary or portable), after the 36-month rental cap, there will be no additional Medicare payment for the maintenance and servicing of such equipment for the remainder of the useful lifetime of the equipment. CMS also determined that for 2009 only, Medicare will pay for in home, maintenance and servicing visits for oxygen concentrators and transfilling equipment every six months, beginning six months after the end of the 36-month rental cap. This payment will be made if the supplier visits the beneficiary’s home, performs any necessary maintenance and servicing, and inspects the equipment to ensure that it will function safely for the next six months. CMS also solicited public comments on whether to continue such maintenance and servicing payments after 2009. Finally, CMS clarified that though it retains title to the equipment, a supplier is required to continue to furnish needed oxygen equipment and contents for liquid or gaseous equipment after the 36-month rental cap until the end of the equipment’s reasonable useful lifetime. CMS determined the reasonable useful lifetime for oxygen equipment to be five years, computed based on the date the equipment is delivered to the beneficiary. On January 27, 2009, CMS posted further instructions on the implementation of the 36-month rental cap, including guidance on payment for oxygen contents after month 36 and the replacement of oxygen equipment that has been in continuous use by the patient for the equipment’s reasonable useful lifetime (as defined above). In accordance with these instructions, and consistent with the final rule published on October 30, 2008, suppliers may bill for oxygen contents on a monthly basis for after the 36-month rental cap, and the supplier can deliver up to a maximum of three months of oxygen contents at one time. Additionally, in accordance with these instructions, and consistent with the final rule published on October 30, 2008, we have begun the process to provide replacement equipment to our patients that exceed five years of continuous use. The DRA and MIPPA oxygen provisions and related regulations represent a fundamental change in the Medicare payment system for oxygen. These provisions are complex, and are expected to result in profound changes in the provider-customer relationship for oxygen equipment and related services. The financial impact of the 36-month rental cap will depend upon a number of variables, including, (i) the number of Medicare oxygen customers reaching 36 months of continuous service, (ii) the number of patients receiving oxygen contents beyond the 36-month rental period and the coverage and billing requirements established by CMS for suppliers to receive payment for such oxygen contents, (iii) the mortality rates of patients on service beyond 36 months, (iv) the incidence of patients with equipment deemed to be beyond its reasonable useful life that may be eligible for new equipment and therefore a new rental episode and the coverage and billing requirements established by CMS for suppliers to receive payment for a new rental period, (v) any breaks in continuous use due to medical necessity and (vi) payment amounts established by CMS to reimburse suppliers for maintenance of oxygen equipment. We continue to evaluate these factors in order to determine the expected impact of the regulations, which we believe will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, cash flows and financial position in 2009 and beyond. We cannot predict the impact that any future rulemaking by CMS will have on our business. If payment amounts for oxygen equipment and contents are further reduced in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Recent regulatory changes subject the Medicare reimbursement rates for our equipment and services to additional reductions and to potential discretionary adjustment by CMS, which could reduce our revenues, net income and cash flows. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment (HME), 28 Table of Contents including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. The regulation implementing the inherent reasonableness authority establishes a process for adjusting payments for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The final December 2005 regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and its contractors (the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors or DME MACs) to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what a realistic and equitable payment amount is. Also, under the regulation, CMS and its contractors will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. The implementation of the inherent reasonableness procedure itself does not trigger payment adjustments for any items or services and to date, no payment adjustments have occurred or been proposed under this inherent reasonableness procedure. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS reduced the reimbursement for HME to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative (LCA) treatment that met the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. LCA determinations have been applied to particular products and services by CMS and its contractors through the informal notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME—a process not required for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness authority or LCA determinations, CMS and its contractors may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Medicare Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. With respect to its LCA policies, on October 16, 2008, a U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia held that CMS did not have authority to implement LCA determinations in setting payment amounts for covered inhalation drugs. As a result, CMS contractors withdrew their LCA policy for DuoNeb that was scheduled to be implemented on November 1, 2008 (discussed in more detail below). On April 10, 2008, the DME MACs issued a local coverage determination that would cause further reductions in payments for certain drugs. Specifically, effective for claims with dates of service on or after July 1, 2008, claims for non-compounded Levalbuterol and DuoNeb were to be paid based on the allowance for “the least costly medically appropriate alternative,” or LCA. For Levalbuterol, payment would be based on non-compounded Albuterol. Claims for DuoNeb would be based on the individual non-compounded unit dose vials of Albuterol and Ipratropium. However, on June 12, 2008, CMS instructed the DME MACs to withdraw the LCA policy for Levalbuterol until receipt of further guidance from CMS. On June 20, 2008, CMS delayed implementation of least costly alternative policies with respect to DuoNeb until November 1, 2008. Finally, after a court decision by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, on October 27, 2008, the LCA determination with respect to DuoNeb was withdrawn. DHHS filed its notice of appeal on December 10, 2008. We cannot predict whether this court decision will be overturned or whether CMS or its contractors will continue to apply least costly alternative policies in the future to inhalation drugs or other HME products we offer to Medicare beneficiaries. A significant percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered respiratory medications, and 2003 legislation imposed significant reductions in Medicare reimbursement for such inhalation drugs. Historically, prescription drug coverage under Medicare has been limited to drugs furnished incident to a physician’s services and certain self-administered drugs, including inhalation drug therapies. Prior to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), Medicare reimbursement for covered Medicare Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, was limited to 95 percent of the published average wholesale price (AWP) for the drug. The MMA established new payment limits and procedures for drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B. Beginning in 2005, inhalation drugs furnished to Medicare beneficiaries were reimbursed at 106 percent of the volume-weighted average sales price (ASP) of the 29 Table of Contents drug, as determined from data provided each quarter by drug manufacturers under a specific formula described in the MMA. Implementation of the ASP-based formula resulted in a dramatic reduction in payment rates for inhalation drugs in 2005 and beyond. Furthermore, because the ASP amounts vary from quarter to quarter, changes in market forces influence the Medicare payment rate. In late 2006, the United States Food and Drug Administration approved a first-time generic formulation for DuoNeb. The introduction of this generic product into the market has contributed to the reduction of the ASP for DuoNeb from $1.079 in the fourth quarter of 2007 to $0.805 in the first quarter of 2008, $0.830 in the second quarter of 2008, $0.581 in the third quarter of 2008, $0.307 in the fourth quarter 2008 and $0.273 in the first quarter of 2009. The reduction in ASP for DuoNeb reduced our 2008 revenue by approximately $14.4 million. The impact of this reduction to our profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations was partially mitigated through the dispensing of generic DuoNeb and changes in nebulizer medication product mix. Recently enacted legislation will further affect Medicare reimbursement amounts for covered Medicare Part B drugs, including inhalation drugs that we provide, beginning April 1, 2008. The Medicare, Medicaid and State Children’s Health Insurance Program Extension Act of 2007 (SCHIP Extension Act) requires CMS to apply an alternative volume weighting computation to its calculation of ASP-based payment amounts. Implemented on April 1, 2008, the new calculation methodology resulted in lower reimbursement amounts for certain inhalation drugs. The SCHIP Extension Act also specifically lowers reimbursement for the inhalation drug Albuterol. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that the provisions of the SCHIP Extension Act affecting Medicare Part B drug reimbursement would result in reductions in aggregate Medicare outlays for such drugs of $1.0 billion over five years and $2.6 billion over 10 years. The reimbursement rate for a single dose Albuterol was reduced from $1.105 in the first quarter of 2008 to $0.110 in the second quarter 2008, $0.100 in the third quarter and $0.110 in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009. The reduction in the reimbursement in rate for single dose Albuterol reduced our 2008 revenue by approximately $8.0 million. Any further reductions the reimbursement rate for single dose Albuterol could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Federal law establishing a competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Recent legislation (see “Business—Government Regulation—Medicare Laws and Regulations” in Part I, Item 1 above) instructs CMS to establish and implement programs under which competitive bidding areas (CBAs) will be established throughout the United States for contract award purposes for the furnishing of competitively priced items of DME, including oxygen equipment. We had been awarded contracts for 9 of the 10 CBAs. On July 15, 2008, however, the United States Congress, following an override of a Presidential veto, enacted the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA), which retroactively delayed the implementation of competitive bidding for eighteen months and terminates all existing contracts previously awarded. As discussed above, on January 16, 2009, CMS published an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) addressing the MIPPA provisions that affect round one of the competitive bidding program. The MIPPA changes that are addressed in this IFC do not alter the fundamental requirements of the final regulation for the competitive bidding program published on April 10, 2007. Until the competitive bidding program is implemented, those items selected for competitive acquisition for round one will be paid under the fee schedules, although, effective January 1, 2009, MIPPA decreased 2008 fee schedule payment amounts by 9.5 percent for product categories included in competitive bidding. Based on current product volumes, management estimates that MIPPA will negatively impact our annual revenue and net income by approximately $17.0 million commencing in 2009. Until such time that the bids are awarded and the associated fee schedules and participating providers are announced, we will not be able to determine the full impact of competitive bidding, nor can we predict at this time the effect the process will have on our ability to continue to provide products to Medicare beneficiaries. 30 Table of Contents Future reductions in reimbursement rates under Medicaid could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. In addition to cost containment initiatives associated with Medicare and Medicaid, we are affected by continuing efforts by private third-party payors to control their costs. If we lower our prices due to pricing pressures from private third-party payors, then our results of operations and financial condition would likely deteriorate. Private payors continually seek to control the cost of providing health care services through direct contracts with health care providers, increased oversight and greater enrollment of patients in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by the health care provider of all or a portion of the financial risk. Reimbursement payments under private payor programs may not remain at current levels and may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs, and we may suffer deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by private third-party payors. We may be compelled to lower our prices due to increased pricing pressures, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to deteriorate. Proposed surety bond requirements could result in significant additional cost in operating our business. On January 2, 2009, CMS published a final rule, effective March 3, 2009, requiring all HME suppliers, except those that are government operated, to obtain and furnish a surety bond to the National Supplier Clearinghouse, the Medicare contractor responsible for enrollment, for each Medicare supplier number held. This final rule was published to implement the surety bond requirements under the BBA. In accordance with this final rule, all HME providers will be required to post a $50,000 surety bond in order to continue as a Medicare supplier. Existing HME providers are required to comply with this requirement by October 2, 2009, while newly enrolling suppliers must meet this requirement by May 4, 2009. The surety bond requirement is designed to limit the Medicare program risk from fraudulent equipment suppliers and help to ensure that those suppliers who remain in the program furnish only items to Medicare beneficiaries that are considered reasonable and necessary from legitimate HME suppliers. Suppliers who have had certain adverse legal actions imposed against them in the past may also be required to post a higher bond amount. We are currently evaluating our options for obtaining the required surety bonds and expect to have surety bonds in place prior to the October 2, 2009 deadline. We are required to obtain separate surety bonds for each of our Medicare provider numbers (one per operating location). We are currently evaluating our options in the surety bond market and until such time that we have completed our evaluation, we will not be able to determine the impact of the surety bond requirements. We do not expect the annual cost of obtaining these surety bonds to be material; however, we are currently unable to predict the collateral requirements associated with these surety bonds. To the extent we are unable to obtain surety bonds for our operating locations or to the extent that the issuing surety requires substantial collateral, these surety bond requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. On January 6, 2009, Rep. Clifford Stearns (R-FL) introduced a bill in the House of Representatives (H.R. 203: Medicare Fraud Prevention Act of 2009) to increase the surety bond requirement to $500,000. While this bill has not yet been voted on by the House, we cannot predict the outcome of this or any future legislation. 31 Table of Contents Risks related to our compliance with federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as accreditation standards Our pharmacy locations and operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal authorities and there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with such regulations. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain licenses from each state to which we deliver such pharmaceuticals. We are therefore subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws can vary significantly from state to state and, while we continuously monitor state activities and changes in the law, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with all laws and regulations that may apply to our pharmacy operations in particular jurisdictions. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our license in a particular state or for other reasons. Failure to comply with applicable state regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension or failure to renew our state pharmacy licenses, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. Our business, including our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program, is subject to extensive laws and government regulations. Failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to severe sanctions and have a significant negative impact on our operations. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including: • billing practices including substantiation and record keeping requirements; • prohibitions on fraud and abuse, kickbacks, rebates and fee splitting; • licensing and certification requirements; • confidentiality, privacy and security issues in connection with medical records and patient information; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of durable medical equipment and other medical equipment; • handling, distribution and disposal of pharmaceutical products and medical waste; • quality assurance; and • occupational safety. Existing United States laws governing Medicare and state health care programs such as Medicaid, as well as similar laws enacted in many states, impose a broad variety of prohibitions on soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration, payment or benefit for the referral of a patient for services or products reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions or “safe harbors” for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate these prohibitions. Violation of these prohibitions may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare and state health care programs. 32 Table of Contents The federal and state Stark Laws impose a broad range of restrictions upon referring physicians (and their immediate family) and providers of certain designated health services under Medicare and state health care programs, including restrictions on financial relationships between the referring physicians and the providers of the designated health care services. Services that we provide are classified as designated health services and fall within the regulatory scope of the Stark Laws. Significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties may be imposed for violation of these laws. We are also subject to strict licensing and safety requirements by the federal government and many states. Furthermore, many state laws prohibit physicians from sharing professional fees with non-physicians and prohibit non-physician entities, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing physicians to practice medicine. In addition, both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. Further, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS and the Department of Justice (DOJ) have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. In 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the DHHS to settle claims against Rotech Medical Corporation relating to certain Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, we or our executives could be included in other governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. On April 30, 2003, federal agents served search warrants at our corporate headquarters and four other facilities in three states and were provided access to a number of current and historical financial records and other materials. Since that time, we have received subpoenas on behalf of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois relating to the same subject matter including information relating to Medicare billing and Department of Veterans Affairs contracting. In January, 2008, the Assistant United States Attorney handling the investigation advised the Company that the U.S. Attorney’s Office was declining to pursue any of the issues being investigated with the exception of issues relating to the Company’s provision of certain supplies to the Maine Medicaid program which remain under investigation. In December 2008, the Company was advised that all of the outstanding matters associated with this investigation have been closed. In February of 2007, a representative from the California Department of Health Services (the “Department”) conducted surveys at our Forest City and Napa, California locations. Each location is licensed by the Department as a “Home Medical Device Retailer” and as such, must comply with certain statutes under the California Health and Safety Code (the “Code”). The Department’s representative alleged that each location was in violation of certain sections of the Code. In the Napa location, an embargo notice was also issued with respect to the dispensing of legend items. Certain legend items were erroneously dispensed during the embargo resulting in an additional notice of violation for the Napa location. The embargo was lifted by the Department after immediate corrective actions were taken. On October 3, 2007, a representative of the Department conducted a follow-up inspection of the Napa location and found no deficiencies. In late 2008, the Company closed both the Napa and Foster City locations. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, demands from the government for refunds or recoupment of amounts previously paid to us by the government, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Some statutory and regulatory provisions, principally in the area of billing, have not been interpreted by the courts and may be interpreted or applied in a manner that might adversely affect us. Changes in health care laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on our business and results of operations. Lack of accreditation of our operating locations or failure to meet government standards for coverage could result in a decline in our revenues. Currently, all of our operating locations are accredited by the Joint Commission (formerly referred to as the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations). If future reviews by the Joint Commission do not result in continued accreditation of our operating locations, we would likely experience a decline in our revenues. Further, under the MMA, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for home medical equipment and certain supplies and has a supplier number for submission of claims must be accredited as meeting quality standards issued by CMS as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. The standards for HME suppliers consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management requirements, which are applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, and which focus on product specialization and service standards. The product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and power and manual wheelchairs and other mobility equipment. We have revised our policies and procedures to ensure compliance in all material respects with the quality standards. The MMA also authorizes CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for home medical equipment. These clinical conditions for payment could limit or reduce the number of individuals who can sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. Some clinical conditions have been implemented, such as the requirement for a face-to-face visit by treating physicians for beneficiaries seeking power mobility devices. In addition, because we have Medicare supplier numbers and are subject to any clinical conditions for payment, our failure to meet such conditions could affect our ability to bill and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions will have on our business. We are subject to periodic audits by governmental and private payors. We are subject to periodic audits by Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the oversight agencies for these programs have rights and remedies they can assert against us if they determine we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These agencies could seek to require us to repay any overcharges or amounts billed in violation of program requirements, or could make deductions from future amounts otherwise due to us from these programs. We could also be subject to fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Private payors also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of recent efforts by government payors to reduce health care costs. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state authorities and there can be no assurance that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with such regulations. We currently have approximately 160 medical gas facilities in 40 states subject to federal and state regulatory requirements. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other federal and state authorities. The FDA regulates medical gases, 34 Table of Contents including medical oxygen, pursuant to its authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). Among other requirements, the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations impose certain quality control, documentation and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. Further, in each state in which we do business, our medical gas facilities are subject to regulation under state health and safety laws, which vary from state to state. The FDA and state authorities conduct periodic, unannounced inspections at medical gas facilities to assess compliance with the cGMP and other regulations, and we expend significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations and other federal and state law requirements at each of our medical gas facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that these efforts will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with federal and state law regulations. Our failure to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance at our medical gas facilities could result in enforcement action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, temporary or permanent injunctions, or suspensions in operations at one or more locations, and civil or criminal penalties which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with regulations under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and related rules (“HIPAA”) relating to the transmission and privacy of health information could impose additional significant costs on our operations. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA, govern the collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of health information within our company and with third parties. HIPAA also includes standards for common health care electronic transactions and code sets, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures, and privacy and electronic security of individually identifiable health information. Each set of HIPAA regulations requires health care providers, including us, in addition to health plans and clearinghouses, to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. Risks related to operational and financial performance Inability to maintain significant vendor relationships could result in a significant disruption in our business, materially adversely affect our results of operations and result in an inability to serve our patients if we lose these relationships. We currently have certain critical vendor relationships. Although we have been able to maintain such relationships without material interruption in the past, there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue. Should any of these vendors elect not to provide services, equipment, inhalation drugs or supplies to us, there would likely be a significant disruption to our business, a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations and an inability to serve our patients until such time as a replacement vendor could be identified. This would likely occur if there is a deterioration or perceived deterioration in our financial position, including our standing with respect to our senior subordinated debt. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the pricing structure that we currently enjoy would be matched by a replacement vendor. Additionally, any future issues with liquidity, debt covenant compliance or declines in our results of operations, could adversely impact our ability to leverage our purchasing activities with new or existing vendors. 35 Table of Contents We depend on ground transportation to deliver medical equipment and if fuel prices increase significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on ground transportation to deliver medical equipment to our customers. Fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Fuel prices and availability of all petroleum products are subject to political, economic and market factors that are beyond our control. An increase in fuel prices, as was experienced in the latter half of 2008, could additionally adversely affect our results of operations. We have not experienced a lack of available fuel but could be adversely impacted if a fuel shortage were to develop. The total impact of higher energy prices on other nonfuel-related expenses is difficult to ascertain. We cannot predict future fuel price fluctuations or the impact of higher energy prices on other cost elements. Depending upon the rates of these changes and the impact on costs in other fuel- and energy-related areas, our profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations could be further impacted. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we have discovered and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Based upon management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If we do not enhance and maintain effective and efficient information systems, then our operations may be disrupted and our anticipated operating efficiency may not be realized. Our operations are dependent on the enhancement and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to enhance and maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and prevent us from achieving operating efficiency. Increases in our costs could erode our profit margins and substantially reduce our net income and cash flows. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs. We compete with other 36 Table of Contents health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. We may write off additional intangible assets. As a result of the implementation of “fresh-start” reporting during 2002, the assets and liabilities of Rotech Medical Corporation were revalued, which resulted in approximately $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill. Due to an overall decline in our profitability which resulted primarily from a series of decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates, and the resulting decline in our market capitalization, we have fully written off the $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill through non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $529.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $163.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Other goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of purchased operations. In addition, we wrote off the balance of our other goodwill, $48.4 million, during 2008 resulting in a total impairment charge of $207.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2008. Any future acquisitions by us will likely result in the recognition of additional intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. We may be subject to claims arising from investigations and legal proceedings, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to investigations and litigation in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we are from time to time involved in other legal proceedings. While Management does not believe that any lawsuit we (or our predecessor) are a party to, if resolved adversely, would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations, investigations and litigation could arise in the future which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. Further, since the date of confirmation of the plan of reorganization, we have not and our predecessor has not received any correspondence from a state challenging the pre-petition discharge of claims. If the coverage limits on our insurance policies are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Participants in the health care industry, including us, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance premiums will be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, then our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. In the event that we acquire companies, we may incur unknown liabilities for their past practices, we may be unable to successfully integrate such companies into our operations and our results of operations could deteriorate. If we acquire additional companies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate such companies successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively and profitably. The process of integrating 37 Table of Contents newly acquired businesses may be costly and disruptive. Our operational, financial and management systems may be incompatible with or inadequate to cost-effectively integrate and manage the acquired systems. As a result, billing practices could be interrupted and cash collections on the newly acquired business could be delayed pending conversion of patient files onto our billing systems and receipt of appropriate licensures and provider numbers from government payors. The integration may place significant demands on our management, diverting their attention from our existing operations. If we are not successful in integrating acquired businesses, our results of operations would likely decline. We may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations. We have policies to conform the practices of acquired facilities to our standards and applicable law and generally intend to seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters. We may, however, incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Risks related to competition and referral sources If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to build volume that justifies discounted prices. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are now provided by a small number of managed care organizations and third-party payors. These organizations, including the Veterans Administration, generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent such organizations terminate agreements with us and/or engage our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, including the Veterans Administration, then we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, then our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relations with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees, and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, then our revenues may decline. We experience competition from numerous other home medical equipment providers, and this competition could result in deterioration in our revenues and business. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers but most of which are either regional or local providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service, a professional staff with clinical and technical expertise and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Walgreens Co. The rest of the market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as hundreds of smaller companies with under $5 million in estimated annual revenues. Many of the smaller, owner-operated home medical equipment providers may have a higher 38 Table of Contents level of service quality that is difficult to replicate. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home health care markets. The competitive nature of the home medical equipment environment could result in deterioration in our revenues and our business. Risks related to recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified employees and directors We are highly dependent on our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could result in a decline in our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Philip L. Carter, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our future success is dependent on the ability of our managers and sales personnel to manage and promote our business, operations and growth. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to hire qualified management and other personnel, or if costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, then our ability to deliver equipment and services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel. Our highest cost is in the payment of salaries to our approximately 3,800 full time employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. Further, in the event that our business operations or financial condition further deteriorate, we may not be able to maintain or recruit critical employees. We may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve as members of our Board of Directors. Our board of directors is currently comprised of five members. Due to our current financial condition and the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve on our board if required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 