Item 1A. Risk Factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash dividends or that dividends will increase over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash dividends to shareholders. Dividends will be based principally on cash available from our properties, real estate securities, mortgage loans and other investments. The amount of cash available for dividends will be affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties, the yields on securities of other real estate programs that we invest in, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. In 2006, our Board voted to decrease our dividend rate for the second quarter of 2006 to $0.15 per common share, as compared to $0.1768 per common share for the first quarter of 2006. This quarterly dividend rate continued for the third and fourth quarters of 2006. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain dividends or that dividends will increase over time. In addition, we can give no assurance that rents from the properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased dividends over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for dividends to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our Board in establishing the dividend rate to shareholders. If we experience decreased cash flows, we may need to use other sources of cash to fund dividends or we may be unable to pay dividends. Actual cash available for dividends may vary substantially from estimates. If our cash dividends exceed the amount of cash available for dividends, we may need to fund the shortage out of working capital, borrowings under our lines of credit or by obtaining other debt, which would reduce the amount of proceeds available for real estate investments. We may need to incur additional borrowings to meet REIT minimum distribution requirements. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding any net capital gain). In addition, the Internal Revenue Code will subject us to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our net capital gain for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. Although we intend to pay dividends to our shareholders in a manner that allows us to meet the distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot assure you that we will always be able to do so. Our income consists almost solely of our share of the Operating Partnership’s income, and the cash available for distribution by us to our shareholders consists of our share of cash distributions made by the Operating Partnership. Because we are the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, our Board determines the amount of any distributions made by it. Our Board may consider a number of factors in making distributions, including: · the amount of the cash available for distribution; · the Operating Partnership’s financial condition; · the Operating Partnership’s capital expenditure requirements; and · our annual distribution requirements necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. 9 Differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses and the inclusion of income and deduction of expenses when determining our taxable income, as well as the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures and the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% excise tax described above. In these circumstances, we may need to borrow funds to avoid adverse tax consequences even if our management believes that the then prevailing market conditions generally are not favorable for borrowings or that borrowings would not be advisable in the absence of the tax consideration. We may incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks. If it is determined to be in our best interests, we may, in some instances, acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur or increase our current mortgage debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may also borrow funds if necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement described above, or otherwise as may be necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We may incur mortgage debt on a particular piece of real property if we believe the property’s projected cash flow is sufficient to service the mortgage debt. If there is a shortfall in cash flow, however, the amount available for dividends to shareholders may be affected. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss because defaults on such indebtedness may result in loss of property in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give lenders full or partial guarantees for mortgage debt incurred by the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by that entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, there is a risk that more than one real property may be affected by a default. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders will be adversely affected. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our operations and dividends to shareholders would be adversely impacted. We intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. A REIT generally is not taxed at the corporate level on income it currently distributes to its shareholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: · we would not be allowed to deduct our distributions to shareholders when computing our taxable income; · we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; · we would be disqualified from being taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions; · our cash available for dividends would be reduced and we would have less cash to pay dividends to shareholders; and 10 · we may be required to borrow additional funds or sell some of our assets in order to pay corporate tax obligations we may incur as a result of our disqualification. Our debt agreements impose limits on our operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The agreements relating to the debt we incur contain financial and operating covenants that may limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders. Our existing credit facilities contain financial and operating covenants, including: · debt service coverage of at least 1.5 to 1.0; · loan-to-value ratio of a borrowing base pool to total funded loan balance of at least 1.67 to 1.00; · total debt not to exceed 60% of fair market value of our real estate assets; · the ratio of secured debt to fair market value of our real estate assets not to exceed 40%; · interest coverage ratio of at least 2.0 to 1.0; · we must hedge certain amounts of variable interest rate debt; · maintenance of specific levels of insurance; and · limitations on our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders, sell assets or engage in mergers, consolidation or make certain acquisitions. Failure to comply with these covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. These covenants may restrict our ability to fund our operations and conduct our business. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or other debt agreements we may enter into in the future. A default could cause one or more of our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments which could force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms. For more discussion, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. Because of the lack of geographic diversification of our portfolio, an economic downturn in the Houston, Dallas or San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas could adversely impact our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. All of our assets and revenues are currently derived from properties located in the Houston, Dallas and San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas. Our results of operations are directly contingent on our ability to attract financially sound commercial tenants. If Houston, Dallas or San Antonio experiences a significant economic downturn, our ability to locate and retain financially sound tenants may be adversely impacted. Likewise, we may be required to lower our rental rates to attract desirable tenants in such an environment. Consequently, because of the lack of geographic diversity among our current assets, if Houston, Dallas or San Antonio experiences an economic downturn, our operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders could be adversely impacted. 11 There is no public trading market for our shares of common stock, making it difficult for shareholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our common shares of beneficial interest. If you are able to find a buyer for your shares, you may not sell your shares to that buyer unless the buyer meets the suitability standards applicable to him or her, including any suitability standards imposed by the potential purchaser’s state of residence. Our declaration of trust also imposes restrictions on the ownership of common shares that will apply to potential transferees that may restrict your ability to sell your shares. In addition, our Board has delayed the implementation of our share redemption program. Even if this program is implemented in the future, our Board may reject any request for redemption of shares or amend, suspend or terminate the program at any time. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. You may not be able to sell your shares in the event of an emergency, and, if you are able to sell your shares, you may have to sell them at a substantial discount. We have acquired a majority of our properties, on a non “arms-length” basis, from entities controlled by the previous advisor and CEO, Allen R. Hartman. We acquired 27 of the 36 properties we owned as of December 31, 2006, from entities controlled by Mr. Hartman. We acquired these properties by paying cash or issuing our commons shares of beneficial interest or units of the Operating Partnership that are convertible into our common shares. No third parties were retained to represent or advise these selling entities or us, and the transactions were not conducted on an “arm’s-length” basis. Mr. Hartman had interests that differed from, and in certain cases conflicted with, his co-investors in these entities. Mr. Hartman received the following as a result of these transactions: · 897,117.19 units of the Operating Partnership that are convertible into our common shares, as adjusted to reflect the recapitalization, in consideration of Mr. Hartman’s general partner interest in the selling entities; · the ability to limit his future exposure to general partner liability as a result of Mr. Hartman no longer serving as the general partner to certain of the selling entities; and · the repayment of debt encumbering several of our properties that was personally guaranteed by Mr. Hartman. Mr. Hartman might not have been able to negotiate all of these benefits if the transactions were negotiated at arm’s length. Further, Mr. Hartman did not make any representations or warranties in regard to the properties or the selling entities (neither personally nor in his capacity as a general partner) in the documents evidencing the transactions. Consequently, we essentially acquired the properties on an “as is” basis. Therefore, we will bear the risk associated with any characteristics of or deficiencies in these properties unknown at the closing of the acquisitions that may affect their valuation or revenue potential. Approximately 43.6% of our gross leasable area is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 43.6% of the aggregate gross leasable area of our properties is subject to leases that expire prior to December 31, 2009. We are subject to the risk that: · tenants may choose not to renew these leases; · we may not be able to re-lease the space subject to these leases; and · the terms of any renewal or re-lease may be less favorable than the terms of the current leases. If any of these risks materialize, our cash flow and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. 12 The value of investments in our common shares will be directly affected by general economic and regulatory factors we cannot control or predict. We only own commercial real estate. Investments in real estate typically involve a high level of risk as the result of factors we cannot control or predict. One of the risks of investing in real estate is the possibility that our properties will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses or will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments. The following factors may affect income from properties and yields from investments in properties and are generally outside of our control: · conditions in financial markets; · over-building in our markets; · a reduction in rental income as the result of the inability to maintain occupancy levels; · adverse changes in applicable tax, real estate, environmental or zoning laws; · changes in general economic conditions; · a taking of any of our properties by eminent domain; · adverse local conditions (such as changes in real estate zoning laws that may reduce the desirability of real estate in the area); · acts of God, such as earthquakes or floods and other uninsured losses; · changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; · changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; and · periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. Some or all of these factors may affect our properties, which could adversely affect our operations and ability to pay dividends to shareholders. We operate in a competitive business and many of our competitors have greater resources and operating flexibility than we do. Numerous real estate companies that operate in the Houston, Dallas and San Antonio, Texas metropolitan areas compete with us in developing and acquiring office, retail and warehouse properties and seeking tenants to occupy their properties. Moreover, as we seek to expand our investments and operations into other geographic locations and other asset types, we will encounter significantly more competition from entities that have more financial and other resources, and more operating experience, than we do. This competition could adversely affect our business. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. Such an increase would result in a heightened demand for these assets that would increase their selling prices. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments our profitability will be reduced. 13 We depend on tenants for our revenue and on anchor tenants to attract non-anchor tenants. As rental income from real property comprises substantially all of our income, the inability of a single major tenant or a number of smaller tenants to meet their obligations to us would adversely affect our income. Tenants may have the right to terminate their leases upon the occurrence of certain customary events of default. In addition, in some cases, tenants may have the right to terminate if the lease held by an anchor tenant or other principal tenant expires, is terminated or the property subject to the lease is vacated, even if rent continues to be paid under the lease. The weakening of a significant tenant’s financial condition or the loss of an anchor tenant may adversely affect our cash flow and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. The bankruptcy or insolvency of major tenants would adversely impact our operations. As of December 31, 2006, our five largest tenants generated approximately 9.3% of the combined rent of our properties. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant or a number of small tenants would have an adverse impact on our income and dividends. Generally, under bankruptcy law, a tenant has the option of continuing or terminating any unexpired lease. If the tenant continues its current lease, the tenant must cure all defaults under the lease and provide adequate assurance of its future performance under the lease. If the tenant terminates the lease, our claim for breach of the lease (absent collateral securing the claim) will be treated as a general unsecured claim. General unsecured claims are the last claims paid in a bankruptcy, and funds may not be available to pay these claims. As of December 31, 2006, none of our major tenants were in bankruptcy or had materially defaulted on their lease. However, any of our tenants could become insolvent or declare bankruptcy in the future. We may have difficulty selling our real estate investments, which may have an adverse impact on our ability to pay dividends. Equity real estate investments are relatively illiquid. We have a limited ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates, supply and demand and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We are especially vulnerable to these risks because all but three of our current properties are located in Houston, Texas. In addition, mortgage payments and, to the extent a property is not occupied entirely by tenants subject to triple net leases, certain significant expenditures such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. The occurrence of these events would adversely affect our income and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage may adversely affect our returns. We will attempt to ensure that all of our properties are adequately insured to cover casualty losses. However, there are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. In some instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate coverage for these losses. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by these uninsured losses. In addition, other than any reserves we may establish, we have no source of funding to repair or reconstruct any uninsured damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any sources of funding will be available to us for this purpose in the future. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large insurance premiums, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in less cash dividends to be distributed to shareholders. 14 Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos containing materials into the air. In addition, third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for payments of dividends to our shareholders. Litigation with Allen R. Hartman and Hartman Management. We are currently involved in litigation with our former Chief Executive Officer, Allen R. Hartman, and manager and advisor, Hartman Management, L.P. While we intend to vigorously defend against claims brought by Mr. Hartman and Hartman Management and vigorously prosecute our claims against Mr. Hartman and Hartman Management, there can be no assurances that we will ultimately prevail. Even if we do ultimately prevail in these lawsuits, we may continue to incur significant legal costs to do so. For more discussion, see Legal Proceedings and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Commitments and Contingencies. Inability to retain key personnel may adversely impact our ability to implement our strategic plan. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain executive officers and other key personnel, including James C. Mastandrea and John J. Dee. We do not have employment agreements with Messrs. Mastandrea or Dee, and we cannot guarantee that they will remain employed by us. We have not purchased “key person” life insurance for Messrs. Mastandrea or Dee. If Messrs. Mastandrea or Dee or any of our other key personnel were to cease their employment with us, our operating results could suffer. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to retain and hire highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining skilled personnel. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our ability to implement our business strategies could be delayed or hindered. Shareholders that received shares under our dividend reinvestment plan on or after October 2, 2006, could be entitled to recission rights. Our dividend reinvestment plan allowed our shareholders to elect to have dividends from our common shares reinvested in additional common shares at a purchase price per share of $9.50. Our dividend reinvestment plan will terminate on April 6, 2007. Shares issued under our dividend reinvestment plan were registered on our Registration Statement on Form S-11. We did not amend or supplement our Registration Statement following our change in management on October 2, 2006, and the events that occurred thereafter. As a result, shareholders that received approximately 64,000 shares issued under our dividend reinvestment plan, on or after that date could be entitled to recission rights. These rights would entitle these holders to recovery of their purchase price less any income received on their shares. If these rights are successfully exercised, the repayment of the purchase price and associated expenses could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 15 Item 