ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risk. However, the risks and uncertainties our company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks related to our liquidity and our financing and capital structures Our failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our current credit agreement contains certain financial covenants, including requirements regarding certain specified EBITDA thresholds and a specified consolidated total leverage ratio. We failed to comply with the financial covenants contained in our former credit agreement and we may be unable to maintain compliance with the EBITDA threshold and consolidated total leverage ratio included in our current credit agreement. If we are unable to comply the covenants contained in our current credit agreement, we will be in default under our credit agreement and, under certain circumstances, the lenders could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, could elect to exercise control over our cash through their rights under the deposit account and control agreement, and institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under our credit agreement. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Furthermore, if our lenders caused all outstanding amounts with respect to the credit agreement debt to be due and payable immediately, we would simultaneously cross default under the indenture governing our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes. If accelerated, upon an event of default, our assets and cash flow would be insufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. Also, if the indebtedness were accelerated, this would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which would likely cause a deterioration of our relationships with our 22 Table of Contents customers and suppliers and adversely affect our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including any credit facilities and the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure including filing for bankruptcy protection. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated long-term debt (including current maturities) accounted for approximately 90% of our total capitalization. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012, including our ability and our decision to make interest payments thereunder when due and payable; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is required to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and therefore would not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • our existing credit agreement limits our ability to acquire businesses and incur indebtedness required to finance such acquisitions; • our ability to finance and consummate transactions that may be critical to our strategic and financial condition could be limited; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • it may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; and • we are vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all in which case we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure including filing for bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay our debt or fund our other liquidity needs. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If additional unfavorable regulatory actions are taken with respect to the reimbursement rates that apply to our business, we experience any significant changes in non-cash working capital (including accounts receivable), we experience material adverse changes in payment patterns from CMS and its contractors or other third-party payors, we experience another payment hold by CMS similar to that experienced in September 2006, or if we are negatively impacted by other unforeseen factors, we may not have sufficient cash available to meet our working capital, capital expenditure and other cash needs through 2007. In addition, we may need, but be unable to obtain, access to our full credit facility (the commitment to fund the last $5.0 million of the revolving line of credit is subject to the approval of lenders holding a majority of the maximum credit amount then 23 Table of Contents outstanding) in connection with meeting our cash needs. If these or other events take place, we may be required to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure including filing for bankruptcy protection. We have substantial upcoming interest payments which we may be unable to pay. We have interest payments of $13.6 million each due on April 2 and October 2, 2007 under the indenture governing our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes. It is our current intention to make these interest payments when due and our current cash projections indicate that the cash generated from our operations and funds available under our credit facility will be sufficient to make these interest payments. However, there can be no assurance that our current cash projections will be realized and if additional unfavorable regulatory actions are taken with respect to the reimbursement rates that apply to our business, we experience any significant changes in non-cash working capital (including accounts receivable), we experience material adverse changes in payment patterns from CMS and its contractors or other third-party payors, we experience another payment hold by CMS similar to that experienced in September 2006, or we are negatively impacted by other unforeseen factors, we may not have sufficient cash available to make these interest payments. In addition, we may need, but be unable to obtain, access to our full credit facility (the commitment to fund the last $5.0 million of the revolving line of credit is subject to the approval of lenders holding a majority of the maximum credit amount then outstanding) in connection with making such interest payments. If we fail to make the required interest payments on our senior subordinated notes, we will be in default under the indenture governing our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes and, under certain circumstances, the indenture trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding notes may declare all notes to be immediately due and payable. Furthermore, if the indenture trustee or our noteholders declared all of our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes to be due and payable immediately, it would result in a cross default under our credit agreement. Our assets and cash flow would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, if accelerated, upon an event of default. If the indebtedness were accelerated, this would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which would likely cause a deterioration of our relationships with our customers and suppliers and adversely affect our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Failure to maintain current levels of collectibility of our accounts receivable would likely have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flow. Billing and collection for our services is a complex process requiring constant attention and involvement by senior management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. We are paid for our services by various payors, including patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and others, each with distinct billing requirements. We recognize revenue when we provide services to patients. However, our ability to collect these receivables is dependent on our submissions to payors of accurate and complete documentation. In order for us to bill and receive payment for our services, the physician and the patient must provide appropriate billing information. Following up on incorrect or missing information generally slows down the billing process and the collection of accounts receivable. Failure to meet the billing requirements of the different payors could result in a decline of our revenues, profitability and cash flow. We may experience significant delays in obtaining Medicare provider numbers which may result in delayed billings and could have a negative impact on accounts receivable collection and cash flows. Recently, a higher percentage of our accounts receivables have been remaining outstanding for longer periods. This increase in the aging of accounts receivable is due to numerous factors, including, increased transaction volumes from patient growth, general slowdowns in payment processing by Medicare and other third-party payors, delays caused by Medicare beneficiaries switching to HMOs, and billing disruptions related to the transition to electronic billing for certain third-party payors. We have reorganized our billing centers as well as billing functions in order to improve our collection process and 24 Table of Contents also appointed a Vice President of Billing and Collections to implement these initiatives. While these initiatives are designed to improve the collection process, there can be no assurance that such initiatives will result in improved collections. Further, even if our billing procedures comply with all third-party payor requirements, some of our payors may experience financial difficulties, may delay payments or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, which would result in increased write-offs or provisions for doubtful accounts. For example, CMS placed a hold on payments for all claims under Medicare Parts A and B from all providers and all physicians during the last nine days of the 2006 Federal fiscal year (September 22—September 30, 2006). Information is not available to determine the exact impact of this payment hold; however, we have estimated the impact to be between $4.1 million and $7.7 million, which resulted in a corresponding increase in accounts receivable and decrease in cash at September 30, 2006. We received payment for claims impacted by the payment hold during the first two weeks of October 2006. In addition, we also continue to experience unpredictable and volatile payment patterns from CMS, its contractors and other third-party payors. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of collectibility or that third-party payors will not experience financial difficulties. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, our revenues, profitability and cash flow likely will significantly decline. In addition, in connection with our consolidation of billing centers, we have experienced in the past short-term disruptions in our operations and collection efforts. If we experience such disruptions in the future, our revenues, profitability and cash flow may significantly decline. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock are concentrated in a small number of stockholders which, acting together, could exercise significant influence over certain aspects of our business. As of December 31, 2006, our five largest stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, any of these large stockholders acting singly could work to frustrate the majority. Risks related to our reliance on Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party reimbursement A substantial percentage of our revenue is attributable to Medicare. Our business may be significantly impacted by changes in Medicare reimbursement policies and recent legislative changes aimed at reducing health care costs. A substantial percentage of our revenue is attributable to Medicare and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid. The remainder of our billings is paid by other third-party payors, including private insurers, and by the patients themselves. Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs (primarily Veterans Administration contracts) accounted for approximately 71.0%, 66.7% and 67.8% for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products and services profitably. In the United States, federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing significant changes in the healthcare system. News headlines continue to highlight the need to control health care spending in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and this pressure may continue to intensify over time. Legislation continues to impact and reduce Medicare payment levels. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, additional reductions have been imposed. Changes under MMA include a reduction in payments for certain types of home medical equipment, including wheelchairs, nebulizers and oxygen equipment, a freeze in payments for certain home medical equipment from 2004 through 2008, competitive 25 Table of Contents bidding requirements, new clinical conditions for payment and accreditation requirements and quality standards. In addition, as of January 1, 2005, MMA also reduced payments for inhalation drugs delivered through nebulizer equipment to an amount based on 106% of average sales price. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement for oxygen, nebulizers and inhalation medications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact that any federal legislation enacted in the future will have on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a dramatic effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. Reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs is subject to federal and state statutory and regulatory requirements, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy, implementation of reimbursement procedures, renewal of Veterans Administration contracts, retroactive payment adjustments and governmental funding restrictions. Our levels of revenue and profitability, like those of other health care companies, are affected by the continuing efforts of government payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates. A substantial percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered HME items, including oxygen, and laws and policies currently in effect reduce payment amounts for certain categories of HME, including those of many of our products. Currently, Medicare payments to us for our HME products are based on the lesser of the actual charge for the item or the applicable Medicare fee schedule amount. Under MMA, from 2004 through 2008, most payments for HME are frozen at the 2003 level unless the item becomes subject to further reductions based on Federal Employee Health Benefits Program median payment amounts (as described below), or is subject to competitive bidding. As of January 1, 2005, the fee schedule amounts for certain items of HME, including wheelchairs and nebulizers, were reduced based on the percentage difference between the amount of payment otherwise determined for 2002 and the median amount of payment under the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, as determined by the Office of Inspector General of DHHS, or OIG. The FEHBP adjusted payments are to remain “frozen” through 2008 unless the particular item becomes subject to competitive bidding. The fee schedule amounts for oxygen and oxygen equipment were also reduced based on this calculation. The non-oxygen HME items subject to the Medicare price cuts accounted for approximately 4.1% of our recorded revenues in 2006. Furthermore, the reductions in the Medicare fee schedules for home oxygen equipment together with the additional reimbursement reductions mandated by the MMA in 2005 for other home medical equipment (excluding inhalation drugs) resulted in an aggregate reduction in our 2006 recorded revenues in the amount of approximately $17.9 million. We cannot predict the outcome of any future rulemaking by CMS. Any additional reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for home oxygen equipment could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, also has made certain changes to the way Medicare Part B pays for our HME products, including capped rental items and oxygen equipment. For capped rental items, including hospital beds, nebulizers and power wheelchairs, Medicare has in the past paid a monthly rental fee for a period not to exceed 15 months of continuous use. Under the DRA, the maximum number of months for which Medicare is to make payment for such equipment decreased from 15 months to 13 months of continuous use, after which time ownership is automatically transferred to the beneficiary. This provision is effective for items furnished for which the first rental month is during or after January 2006. As to power wheelchairs, the DRA preserves an existing provision requiring that beneficiaries be given the option to purchase the power wheelchair at the time it is furnished. For oxygen equipment, prior to the DRA, Medicare made monthly rental payments indefinitely, provided medical need continued. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for oxygen equipment at 36 months of continuous use, after which time ownership of the equipment transfers to the beneficiary. For purposes of this cap, the DRA provides for a new 36 month rental 26 Table of Contents period that began January 1, 2006 for all oxygen equipment. This new 36 month rental period applies for beneficiaries starting to use the equipment as well as for those who have been using it prior to 2006. In addition to the changes in the duration of the rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment, the DRA authorizes payments for servicing and maintenance of the products after ownership transfers to the beneficiary if the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services determines the servicing and maintenance is reasonable and necessary. Prior to the changes by the DRA to the duration of the capped rental period and the new transfer of ownership requirement, Medicare payment for the capped rental items was made automatically every six months for servicing and maintenance for those products for which a Medicare supplier retained ownership after the capped rental period ended. On November 1, 2006, CMS released a final rule to implement the DRA changes, which went into effect January 1, 2007. Under the rule, CMS explains the DRA’s 36-month rental cap on oxygen equipment that began on January 1, 2006. CMS also revised categories and payment amounts for the oxygen equipment and contents during the rental period and for oxygen contents after equipment ownership by the beneficiary as follows: • Payment for Rental Period. For stationary oxygen equipment, the 2007 payment amount is $198.40, a decrease of $1.44 from the 2006 amount. The portable oxygen add-on amount remains unchanged from 2006, at $31.79. CMS also created a new class for oxygen-generating portable oxygen equipment and a new monthly rental payment amount of $51.63 for this equipment. • Payment for Contents After Beneficiary Ownership. Payment is based on the type of equipment owned and whether it is oxygen-generating. Previously, CMS paid a combined average monthly payment amount of $154.90 for furnishing oxygen contents for beneficiary-owned stationary and portable systems. This amount included payment for both stationary contents and portable contents. CMS will split this payment into a separate monthly payment amount for stationary oxygen content of $77.45 and a separate monthly payment amount for portable oxygen content of $77.45. This payment amount is for oxygen contents for equipment that is not oxygen-generating. If the beneficiary owns both stationary and portable equipment that is not oxygen-generating, the monthly payment amount for oxygen contents is $154.90. For stationary or portable oxygen equipment that is oxygen-generating, there will be no monthly payment for contents. In its November 1, 2006 final rule, CMS also acknowledges certain other payments after ownership transfers, including payment for supplies such as tubing and masks. In addition, CMS details several requirements regarding a supplier’s responsibility to maintain and service capped rental items and provides for a general maintenance and servicing payment for certain oxygen-generating equipment beginning six months after title has transferred to the beneficiary. While we do not expect the changes in rental periods and payment amounts for capped rental items and oxygen equipment to have a material impact on our business in 2007, at this time, we anticipate that the changes in rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations beginning in 2009. We cannot predict the impact that any future rulemaking by CMS will have on our business. If payment amounts for oxygen equipment and contents are further reduced in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, President George W. Bush’s proposed 2008 budget includes a further reduction in the maximum rental period for home oxygen equipment from 36 months to 13 months. It is not clear at this time whether this proposal or any other proposal will be included in the final 2008 budget approved by Congress, however, any further reductions to the maximum rental period for home oxygen equipment would likely have a material adverse affect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. A significant percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered respiratory medications, and laws and policies currently in effect impose significant reductions in Medicare reimbursement for such inhalation drugs. The MMA revised the payment methodology for certain drugs, including inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. Prior to MMA, Medicare paid for these drugs based on average wholesale price, or AWP, as 27 Table of Contents reported by drug manufacturers. Beginning January 1, 2004, Medicare payments for inhalation drugs were reduced for most of our Part B inhalation drugs to 80% of AWP from 95% of AWP, a reduction of approximately 15 basis points. As of January 1, 2005, as required by MMA, payment amounts for most drugs are based on the average sales price, or ASP. These reductions in Medicare payment rates for inhalation drugs reduced our net revenues by approximately $39 million in 2005. The reduction in 2005 was partially offset by shifts in patient and product mix. ASP is defined statutorily as the volume weighted average of manufacturers’ average sales prices, calculated by adding the manufacturers’ average sales prices for the drug in the fiscal quarter to the number of units sold and then divided by the total number of units sold for all national drug codes assigned to the product. Under the ASP methodology, Medicare generally will pay 106% of ASP for multiple source drugs and 106% of the lesser of ASP or wholesale acquisition cost for single source drugs. In addition, if the ASP exceeds the widely available market price or the average manufacturer price by more than a threshold amount, ASP is substituted with the lesser of the widely available market price or 103% of the average manufacturer price. This threshold amount was 5% in 2006, which is to be continued for 2007. ASP payment rates are calculated using the most recent manufacturer data available. Manufacturer ASP data submissions are due to CMS not later than 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter. Quarterly updates are to be implemented to reflect these quarterly submissions by manufacturers. For example, fourth quarter 2005 data was used to calculate the ASP payment amounts for the second quarter of 2006. ASP payment amounts for our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For each of the quarters of 2005, as well as each of the quarters of 2006, the ASP payment amounts for many drugs, including two prevalent inhalation drugs, albuterol sulfate and ipratropium bromide, are significantly less than the payment amounts for these drugs in 2004. Albuterol sulfate has been reduced from an average of $0.390 per milligram in 2004 (80% of AWP) to an average of $0.071 per milligram in 2005 (106% of ASP) and to an average of $0.069 per milligram in 2006 (106% of ASP). Ipratropium bromide has been reduced from an average of $2.820 per milligram in 2004 (80% of AWP) to an average of $0.210 per milligram in 2005 (106% of ASP) and to an average of $0.217 per milligram in 2006 (106% of ASP). In addition to MMA changes in payment methodology, given the overall reduction in payment for inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers, CMS established a dispensing fee for inhalation drugs shipped to a beneficiary. The 2005 dispensing fee was $57 for a 30-day period or $80 for a 90-day period. Effective January 1, 2006, the dispensing fee for inhalation drugs furnished to beneficiaries remained at $57 for the first 30-day period in which a Medicare beneficiary uses inhalation drugs and was reduced to $33 for each subsequent 30-day period. The dispensing fee for a 90-day supply of inhalation drugs was likewise reduced to $66. These reductions in the 2006 Medicare dispensing fees reduced our net revenue by approximately $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Medicare-reimbursed inhalation drug therapies provided by us accounted for approximately 18.2% and 11.5% of our recorded revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The reduction experienced in 2006 was caused primarily by the decreased reimbursement rate for budesonide. The dispensing fees offset, to some extent, the reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs established under the ASP methodology. Although CMS has indicated that the dispensing fee for 2007 will continue to be paid at the 2006 rate, future dispensing fee reductions or eliminations, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. While we were able, based upon the dispensing fees, to continue to offer inhalation drugs to Medicare patients through 2006, the reductions in dispensing fees for 2006, along with the pricing changes resulting from the ASP payment rates have resulted in a further material reduction in the revenues and profitability of our inhalation drug business and we cannot predict whether it will continue to be economically feasible for us to provide inhalation drugs in the future. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement for oxygen, nebulizers and inhalation medications in 2006, many of which are expected to continue to exist for a number of years, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Effective January 1, 2006, CMS established a new billing code and payment methodology for compounded budesonide, which includes compounded budesonide formulations that we provide to Medicare beneficiaries 28 Table of Contents based on a physician’s prescription. Medicare reimbursement rates for compounded budesonide, beginning January 1, 2006, are based on pharmacy invoices submitted for individual claims. This payment amount reflects a reimbursement rate based on the acquisition of raw materials and is far below the prior years’ payment amounts. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the new reimbursement rates for compounded budesonide resulted in a reduction in our recorded revenues of approximately $30.4 million. In light of the reduced reimbursement rates for compounded budesonide and to resolve certain issues associated with a warning letter received from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) which is discussed in more detail below, we are not accepting new prescriptions for certain compounded products (including compounded formulations of budesonide) and, where clinically appropriate, have instituted a process to transition patients currently on these compounded products to commercially available alternative products. As a result of our decision to switch these patients to commercially available drug products, we have taken a one-time, non-cash charge of $4.0 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2006, to write-off our pharmacy compounding equipment, capitalized costs associated with our compounding facility, and substantially all remaining balances for budesonide-related accounts receivable. The transition of these patients to commercially available alternative products is expected to have a positive impact on our revenues during 2007 when compared to 2006, however these products have lower margins and, accordingly, this patient transition will have a material adverse effect on our profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations when compared to the reimbursements for the compounded products under the prior billing code and payment methodology in effect prior to 2006. Effective January 1, 2007, CMS established new billing codes and payment methodologies for other compounded inhalation drugs, including albuterol and ipratropium. The revised codes distinguish compounded from non-compounded drugs, and Medicare payments for compounded formulations are to be based on invoices for the compounded materials. Our compounding activities with respect to other inhalation drugs are not material, as such we do not expect that the new billing codes and payment methodologies with respect to such drugs will have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows or results of operations. Federal law establishing a competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition. In 1999-2001, CMS conducted competitive bidding demonstrations for certain Medicare services. Under MMA, starting in 2007, Medicare is scheduled to begin a nationwide competitive bidding program in ten high-population metropolitan statistical areas (“MSAs”) for certain high cost and high utilization items. The program is to expand to cover 80 MSAs in 2009 and additional areas thereafter. Competitive bidding will require suppliers to compete for the rights to provide items to beneficiaries in a defined region. Only a limited number of suppliers will be selected in any given MSA, resulting in restricted supplier choices for beneficiaries. Competitive bidding may result in lower reimbursement or the loss of our ability to provide services in certain regions. MMA permits certain exemptions from competitive bidding, including exemptions for rural areas and areas with low population density within urban areas that are not competitive, unless there is a significant national market through mail-order for the particular item. A large number of our facilities are located in such areas. However, the criteria for how the exemption will be applied have not yet been determined. On April 24, 2006, CMS issued proposed regulations regarding the implementation of competitive bidding. The proposed regulations include, among other things, proposals regarding how CMS will determine in which MSAs to initiate the program and which products and product categories to competitively bid, conditions to be met for awarding contracts, and the “grandfathering” of existing oxygen and other HME agreements with beneficiaries if a supplier is not selected. CMS proposed a number of methodologies it is considering to evaluate bids and set the payment rates for the products that are competitively bid. The proposed regulations also would revise the methodology CMS would use to price new products not included in competitive bidding. The proposed regulations do not provide many of the details needed to assess the impact that competitive bidding and other elements of the rule will have on our business. Until the regulations are finalized, significant uncertainty remains as to how the competitive bidding program will be implemented. 29 Table of Contents Regulatory and other policy changes subject the Medicare reimbursement rates for our equipment and services to potential discretionary adjustment by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997, or BBA 97, granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by up to 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. On December 13, 2005, CMS published a final rule implementing the inherent reasonableness authority, which became effective on February 11, 2006. The agency’s final rule essentially left in place the criteria already articulated in an earlier interim final rule. The final rule allows the agency and its contractors to adjust payment amounts by up to 15% per year for certain items and services covered by Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and its contractors to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what is a realistic and equitable payment amount. Also, under the regulation, CMS and its contractors will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS has the discretion to reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative treatment that meets the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. Least costly alternative, or LCA, determinations may be applied to particular products and services through the informal notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME. This process need not be followed for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness or least costly alternative authority, CMS and its contractors may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. In March 2006, Medicare contractors issued a draft local coverage determination, or LCD, for nebulizers and inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers that are covered by Medicare Part B, which proposes to change significantly the payment rates and coverage criteria for several inhalation drugs that we dispense to beneficiaries, in part using the LCA mechanism discussed above. Specifically, the draft LCD proposes to reduce the payment amount for two FDA-approved drugs. The formulation of levalbuterol (commercially available under the name “Xopenex®”) would be reduced to the maximum allowable payment for generic albuterol, and the payment amount for the commercially available combination of levalbuterol and ipratropium (commercially available under the name “DuoNeb®”) to the maximum allowable payment for separate unit dose vials of albuterol and ipratropium. If implemented, these reductions could be as much as 95% for Xopenex and 74% for DuoNeb based on January 1, 2007 reimbursement rates. The draft LCD also would eliminate coverage for certain other nebulizer drugs due to a lack of sufficient scientific support for their administration with a nebulizer and would establish maximum monthly utilization limits for budesonide. The Medicare contractors have accepted written public comments on the proposed changes and also held public meetings to receive comments on the draft LCD. If adopted as proposed, the draft LCD could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. Further, as to coverage policies, CMS has initiated a national coverage analysis to evaluate Medicare coverage at the national level for beta adrenergic agonist therapy drugs used for lung diseases. CMS expects to issue its national coverage memorandum on September 18, 2007. At this time we cannot predict the full impact of the national coverage analysis on our business. Future reductions in reimbursement rates under Medicaid could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents In addition to cost containment initiatives associated with Medicare and Medicaid, we are affected by continuing efforts by private third-party payors to control their costs. If we lower our prices due to pricing pressures from private third-party payors, our results of operations and financial condition would likely deteriorate. Private payors continually seek to control the cost of providing health care services through direct contracts with health care providers, increased oversight and greater enrollment of patients in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by the health care provider of all or a portion of the financial risk. Reimbursement payments under private payor programs may not remain at current levels and may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs, and we may suffer deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by private third-party payors. We may be compelled to lower our prices due to increased pricing pressures, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to deteriorate. Risks related to our compliance with federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as accreditation standards The FDA has asserted that our pharmacy compounding practices with respect to certain products constitute drug manufacturing which could require us to discontinue compounding activities for these and other products, and we could be subject to enforcement action, including temporary or permanent suspension of part or all of our compounding operations or seizure of part or all of our compounded formulations. Our Pulmo-Dose pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky dispenses compounded preparations of drug products that are not commercially available, based upon a patient’s individual need and at a physician’s specific request. Pharmacy compounding, or the preparation of a dosage, combination or variation of a drug that has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), is considered to be within the practice of pharmacy and is regulated primarily under state law. However, some of the activities that we consider to be compounding may be viewed by the FDA as the manufacture of a new drug product, which would subject such activities to rigorous regulation by the FDA under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). The line between the activities that constitute drug compounding and the activities that constitute drug manufacturing is not clear, and the FDA may define the scope of drug manufacturing activities more broadly than we or the state pharmacy board do. In recent years, the FDA has increased its scrutiny of pharmacy compounding activities, and has issued several warning letters citing pharmacies for violations of the FFDCA based, in part, on volumes and types of compounded pharmaceutical products. On August 1, 2005, the FDA initiated an inspection of our Pulmo-Dose pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky. The FDA completed its audit on August 12, 2005 and noted three inspectional observations. We promptly submitted a response to the FDA and continued to engage in ongoing communications with the FDA regarding the inspection and the FDA’s continuing review of our pharmacy’s activities. On August 10, 2006, we received a warning letter from the FDA relating to our subsidiary, Pulmo-Dose, Inc. The warning letter states that Pulmo-Dose’s compounding of formulations of budesonide, albuterol/ipratropium, and formoterol/budesonide exceeds the scope of the practice of pharmacy and that Pulmo-Dose is operating as a pharmaceutical manufacturer and not a pharmacy engaged in extemporaneous compounding. We submitted a formal response to the warning letter on September 8, 2006, explaining that while we disagree with the FDA’s assertions, we have commenced, in collaboration with our patients’ physicians, a process to switch patients currently taking the compounded products identified in the warning letter to drug products that are commercially available, where clinically appropriate. In addition, we are not accepting any new prescriptions for these compounded products. As of March 5, 2007, of the approximately 15,000 patients previously receiving compounded drug products, over 12,500 have been successfully switched to commercially available drug products. We continue to work with our patients’ physicians to switch the remaining patients and expect completion of this process within the next few months. As a result of our decision to switch these patients 31 Table of Contents to commercially available drug products, we have taken a one-time, non-cash charge of $4.0 million for the three months and year ended December 31, 2006, to write-off our pharmacy compounding equipment, capitalized costs associated with our compounding facility, and substantially all remaining balances for budesonide-related accounts receivable. The transition of these patients to commercially available alternative products is expected to have a positive impact on our revenues during 2007 when compared to 2006, however, these products have lower margins and, accordingly, this patient transition will have a material adverse effect on our profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations when compared to the reimbursements for the compounded products under the prior billing code and payment methodology in effect prior to 2006. On January 8, 2007, the FDA responded to our letter and indicated that, based on its reanalysis of the assertions made in the warning letter, it remains the FDA’s view that Pulmo-Dose is a drug “manufacturer” within the meaning of the FFDCA. The FDA further stated that this conclusion applies to all of the preparations compounded at Pulmo-Dose and not just those identified in the warning letter. We submitted our written response to the FDA’s January 8, 2007 letter on March 5, 2007 and we remain committed to working with the FDA to resolve this matter. However, we are unable to predict whether or when we will be able to reach a satisfactory resolution of this matter. As noted above, our compounding activities with respect to other inhalation drugs are not material. Our pharmacy locations and operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal authorities and there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with such regulations. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain licenses from each state to which we deliver such pharmaceuticals. We are therefore subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws can vary significantly from state to state and, while we continuously monitor state activities and changes in the law, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with all laws and regulations that may apply to our pharmacy operations in particular jurisdictions. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our license in a particular state or for other reasons. Failure to comply with applicable state regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension or failure to renew our state pharmacy licenses, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. Our business, including our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program, is subject to extensive laws and government regulations. Failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to severe sanctions and have a significant negative impact on our operations. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including: • billing practices including substantiation and record keeping requirements; • prohibitions on fraud and abuse, kickbacks, rebates and fee splitting; • licensing and certification requirements; • confidentiality, privacy and security issues in connection with medical records and patient information; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of durable medical equipment and other medical equipment; • handling, distribution and disposal of pharmaceutical products and medical waste; 32 Table of Contents • quality assurance; and • occupational safety. Existing United States laws governing Medicare and state health care programs such as Medicaid, as well as similar laws enacted in many states, impose a broad variety of prohibitions on soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration, payment or benefit for the referral of a patient for services or products reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions or “safe harbors” for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate these prohibitions. Violation of these prohibitions may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare and state health care programs. The federal and state “Stark Laws” impose a broad range of restrictions upon referring physicians (and their immediate family) and providers of certain designated health services under Medicare and state health care programs, including restrictions on financial relationships between the referring physicians and the providers of the designated health care services. Services that we provide are classified as designated health services and fall within the regulatory scope of the Stark Laws. Significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties may be imposed for violation of these laws. We are also subject to strict licensing and safety requirements by the federal government and many states. Furthermore, many state laws prohibit physicians from sharing professional fees with non-physicians and prohibit non-physician entities, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing physicians to practice medicine. In addition, both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. Further, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS and the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. In 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the DHHS to settle claims against Rotech Medical Corporation relating to certain Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, we or our executives could be included in other governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. On April 30, 2003, federal agents served search warrants at our corporate headquarters and four other facilities in three states and were provided access to a number of current and historical financial records and other materials. Since that time, we have received subpoenas on behalf of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois relating to the same subject matter including information relating to Medicare billing and Department of Veterans Affairs contracting. We are cooperating fully with the investigation. However, we can give no assurances as to the duration of the investigation or as to whether or not the government will institute proceedings against us or any of our employees or as to the violations that may be asserted. In February of 2007, a representative from the California Department of Health Services (the “Department”) conducted surveys at two locations; 1175 Chess Drive, Unit B, Foster City, CA and 907 Trancas Street, Napa, CA. Each location is licensed by the Department as a “Home Medical Device Retailer” and as such, must comply 33 Table of Contents with certain statutes under the California Health and Safety Code (the “Code”). The Department’s representative alleged that each location was in violation of certain sections of the Code. In the Napa location, an embargo notice was also issued with respect to the dispensing of legend items. Certain legend items were erroneously dispensed during the embargo resulting in an additional notice of violation for the Napa location. The embargo was lifted by the Department after immediate corrective actions were taken. Both locations are preparing a final corrective action plan for the alleged violations for submission to the Department. In addition, we have provided information relating to equipment maintenance requirements requested by the representative. This investigation remains open, we intend to continue to cooperate with the investigation and we have suspended billings from these locations to government healthcare programs and all other payors pending implementation of certain corrective actions. If the Department so elects, the Code allows it to pursue administrative or civil action, with maximum civil penalties of up to $1,000 per violation. In addition, any violation of an embargo is a misdemeanor under California law. If the matter is referred for criminal prosecution, and there is a criminal conviction, the penalty is imprisonment for not more than one year in the county jail and/or a maximum fine of $1,000 per violation. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, any resulting enforcement action, including related fines, injunctions, and civil or criminal penalties, could limit our ability to operate our Foster City and Napa locations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, demands from the government for refunds or recoupment of amounts previously paid to us by the government, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Some statutory and regulatory provisions, principally in the area of billing, have not been interpreted by the courts and may be interpreted or applied in a manner that might adversely affect us. Changes in health care laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on our business and results of operations. Lack of accreditation of our operating centers or failure to meet government standards for coverage could result in a decline in our revenues. Currently, approximately 96.9% of our operating centers are accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, or JCAHO. If future reviews by JCAHO do not result in continued accreditation of our operating centers, we would likely experience a decline in our revenues. Further, under MMA, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for home medical equipment and certain supplies and has a supplier number for submission of claims must be accredited as meeting quality standards issued by CMS as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. On August 14, 2006, CMS published its quality standards for HME suppliers. As an entity that bills Medicare and receives payment from the program, we will be subject to these standards. The final standards consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management requirements, which would be applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, which focus on product specialization and service standards. The proposed product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and power and manual wheelchairs and other mobility equipment. We have revised our policies and procedures to ensure compliance in all material respects with the quality standards. On July 31, 2006, CMS issued a final rule, which implements criteria for accrediting organizations to be selected by CMS to apply the final quality standards. In addition, on November 22, 2006, CMS announced that JCAHO has been selected to be one of the recognized accreditation organizations. CMS has not addressed whether suppliers that are already accredited by the selected accreditation organizations, such as JCAHO, will be “grandfathered.” The final rule does not provide us with sufficient information to predict the impact of competitive bidding or the final accreditation criteria on our business. MMA also authorizes CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for home medical equipment. These new clinical conditions for payment could limit or reduce the number of individuals who can sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. In addition, because we have Medicare supplier numbers 34 Table of Contents and are subject to any new clinical conditions for payment, our failure to meet such conditions could affect our ability to bill and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions will have on our business. We are subject to periodic audits by governmental and private payors. We are subject to periodic audits by Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the oversight agencies for these programs have rights and remedies they can assert against us if they determine we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These agencies could seek to require us to repay any overcharges or amounts billed in violation of program requirements, or could make deductions from future amounts otherwise due to us from these programs. We could also be subject to fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Private payors also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of recent efforts by government payors to reduce health care costs. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state authorities and there can be no assurance that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with such regulations. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other federal and state authorities. The FDA regulates medical gases, including medical oxygen, pursuant to its authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). Among other requirements, the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations impose certain quality control, documentation and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. The FDA and state authorities conduct periodic, unannounced inspections at medical gas facilities to assess compliance with the cGMP and other regulations. We currently have approximately 160 medical gas facilities subject to federal and state regulatory requirements, and we expend significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations and other federal and state law requirements at each of our medical gas facilities. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with federal and state law regulations. Further, our medical gas facilities are subject to state regulation under health and safety laws that vary from state to state. As a result, our medical gas facilities are periodically inspected by state authorities, and we therefore must expend resources in identifying and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our medical gas operations in each state in which we do business. Our failure to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance at our medical gas facilities could result in enforcement action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, temporary or permanent injunctions, and civil or criminal penalties which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not comply with laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of medical information, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. In 1996, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was enacted, among other things, to establish uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic health care transactions and to protect the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses. Three standards have been promulgated under HIPAA with which we currently are required to comply. We must comply with the Standards for Electronic Transactions, which establish standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures; unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals; security; privacy; and enforcement. We were required to comply with these Standards by October 16, 2003. We also must comply with 35 Table of Contents the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Information, which restricts our use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information. We were required to comply with the Privacy Standards by April 14, 2003. In addition, the Security Standards required us to implement certain security measures to safeguard certain electronic health information by April 20, 2005. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these HIPAA standards. One other standard relevant to our use of medical information has been promulgated under HIPAA, although our compliance with this standard is not yet required. CMS published a final rule, which will require us to adopt a Unique Health Identifiers for use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions by May 23, 2007. While the government intended this legislation to reduce administrative expenses and burdens for the health care industry, our compliance with this law may entail significant and costly changes for us. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement or the terms of our settlement with the federal government, we could be subject to severe sanctions and be excluded from participating in federal and state health care programs, as well as adverse publicity, which could result in a material decrease in our revenue and seriously undermine our ability to compete for business, negotiate acquisitions, hire new personnel and otherwise conduct our business. On February 11, 2002, our predecessor entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the DHHS. We have assumed the obligations under this agreement (and the settlement with the federal government). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, we are obligated to implement procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal health care programs. The term of the Corporate Integrity Agreement expired in February 2007, however, certain sections of the agreement (including, OIG inspection, audit and review rights and document retention obligations) remain in effect until the OIG has completed its review of our final annual report and any additional materials submitted by us pursuant to OIG’s request. We are required to submit our final annual report on or before July 11, 2007. Among other things, the Corporate Integrity Agreement requires us to conduct internal claims reviews relating to our Medicare billing. We must file reports of the reviews with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. As a result of these reviews we may be required to refund certain payments to the federal government and/or be subject to penalties resulting from such overpayments. In addition, failure by us to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement could subject us to substantial monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, as well as adverse publicity, which could seriously undermine our ability to compete for business, negotiate acquisitions, hire new personnel and otherwise conduct our business, and could result in a deterioration in our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Corporate Integrity Agreement” for a more detailed description of the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement. Risks related to operational and financial performance Inability to maintain significant vendor relationships could result in a significant disruption in our business, materially adversely affect our results of operations and result in an inability to serve our patients if we lose these relationships. We currently have certain critical vendor relationships. Although we have been able to maintain such relationships without material interruption in the past, there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue. Should any of these vendors elect not to provide services, equipment, inhalation drugs or supplies to us, there would likely be a significant disruption to our business, a material adverse effect on our revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations and an inability to serve our patients until such time as a replacement vendor could be identified. This could occur if there is a deterioration or perceived deterioration of our financial position, including our standing with respect to our senior subordinated debt. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the pricing structure that we currently enjoy would be matched by a replacement vendor. Additionally, any future issues with liquidity, debt covenant compliance or declines in our results of operations, could adversely impact our ability to leverage our purchasing activities with new or existing vendors. 36 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate any deficiencies we have discovered and improve our internal control over financial reporting and based upon management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If we do not enhance and maintain effective and efficient information systems, our operations may be disrupted and our anticipated operating efficiency may not be realized. Our operations are dependent on the enhancement and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to enhance and maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and prevent us from achieving operating efficiency. Increases in our costs could erode our profit margins and substantially reduce our net income and cash flows. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. We may write off additional intangible assets, such as goodwill. As a result of the implementation of “fresh-start” reporting during 2002, the assets and liabilities of Rotech Medical Corporation were revalued, which resulted in approximately $692.2 million of reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill. As of December 31, 2006, the reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets-goodwill was approximately $163.2 million after we recorded $529.0 million 37 Table of Contents in impairment charges, as described below. Other goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of purchased operations. As of December 31, 2006, this goodwill was approximately $43.9 million. Any future acquisitions by us will likely result in the recognition of additional intangible assets. Due to an overall decline in our profitability which resulted primarily from decreases in Medicare reimbursement rates, including the recent reductions for compounded budesonide and the resulting decline in our market capitalization, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $529.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. We may be subject to claims arising from investigations and legal proceedings, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we are from time to time involved in other legal proceedings. In connection with its emergence from bankruptcy, claims made against our predecessor prior to the date it filed for bankruptcy protection were satisfied in accordance with the terms of its plan of reorganization or pursuant to settlement agreements approved by the Bankruptcy Court. However, although management believes that all pre-petition state claims have also been discharged or dealt with in the plan of reorganization, states in other bankruptcy cases have challenged whether, as a matter of law, their claims could be discharged in a federal bankruptcy proceeding if they never made an appearance in the case. The issue has not been finally settled by the United States Supreme Court. Therefore, there is no assurance that a court would find that emergence from bankruptcy would discharge all such state claims against us or our predecessor involving pre-petition claims. Any such claim not discharged could result in a decline in our financial condition and profitability. Since the date of confirmation of the plan of reorganization, we have not and our predecessor has not received any correspondence from a state challenging the pre-petition discharge of claims. If the coverage limits on our insurance policies are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Participants in the health care industry, including us, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance premiums will be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. In the event that we acquire companies, we may incur unknown liabilities for their past practices, we may be unable to successfully integrate such companies into our operations and our results of operations could deteriorate. If we acquire additional companies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate such companies successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively and profitably. The process of integrating newly acquired businesses may be costly and disruptive. Our operational, financial and management systems may be incompatible with or inadequate to cost-effectively integrate and manage the acquired systems. As a 38 Table of Contents result, billing practices could be interrupted and cash collections on the newly acquired business could be delayed pending conversion of patient files onto our billing systems and receipt of appropriate licensures and provider numbers from government payors. The integration may place significant demands on our management, diverting their attention from our existing operations. If we are not successful in integrating acquired businesses, our results of operations would likely decline. We may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations. We have policies to conform the practices of acquired facilities to our standards and applicable law and generally intend to seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters. We may, however, incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Risks related to competition and referral sources If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to build volume that justifies discounted prices. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are now provided by a small number of managed care organizations and third-party payors. These organizations, including the Veterans Administration, generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent such organizations terminate agreements with us and/or engage our competitors, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, including the Veterans Administration, we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Effective January 31, 2006, CIGNA Healthcare (“CIGNA”) amended its contract with Gentiva Health Services (“Gentiva”), whereby Gentiva would no longer coordinate specific respiratory therapy and DME services on behalf of CIGNA. Through our contract with Gentiva, we were a primary provider of such respiratory therapy and DME services to CIGNA patients and as a result of this contract amendment, we experienced a reduction of approximately $19.3 million in net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relations with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees, and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, our revenues may decline. We experience competition from numerous other home medical equipment providers, and this competition could result in a deterioration in our revenues and business. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers but most of which are either regional or local providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service, a professional staff with clinical and technical expertise and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. The rest of the 39 Table of Contents market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as hundreds of smaller companies with under $5 million in revenues. Many of the smaller, owner-operated home medical equipment providers may have a higher level of service quality that is difficult to replicate. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home health care markets. The competitive nature of the home medical equipment environment could result in a deterioration in our revenues and our business. Risks related to recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified employees and directors We are highly dependent on our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could result in a decline in our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Philip L. Carter, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Our future success is dependent on the ability of our managers and sales personnel to manage and promote our business, operations and growth. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to hire qualified management and other personnel, or if costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver equipment and services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel. Our highest cost is in the payment of salaries to our approximately 4,900 full time employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees, which has caused increased salary and wage rates. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. Further, in the event that our business operations or financial condition further deteriorate, we may not be able to maintain or recruit critical employees. We may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve as members of our Board of Directors. Our board of directors is currently comprised of five members, three of whom are independent under applicable NASDAQ marketplace rules. The chairman of our board of directors is not independent under applicable NASDAQ marketplace rules and currently serves on certain of our board committees under an exception to NASDAQ’s independence requirements. In addition, there are currently two vacancies on our board of directors. Due to our current financial condition and the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to recruit independent individuals to serve on our board if required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 