Risk Factors.” Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. When you consider these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind these risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report, including the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” We do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 1 Table of Contents PART I Rotech Healthcare Inc. was established upon the transfer to us of substantially all of the assets of our predecessor, Rotech Medical Corporation, when it emerged from bankruptcy on March 26, 2002. The financial information included herein reflect these transactions effective as of March 31, 2002. As a result, references to “we”, “our”, and “us” refer to the operations of Rotech Healthcare Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries for all periods subsequent to March 31, 2002 and the business and operations of our predecessor, Rotech Medical Corporation, a Florida corporation, and its subsidiaries for all periods prior to April 1, 2002. Financial data for the year-ended December 31, 2002 have been presented for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and the nine months ended December 31, 2002, rather than for the year-ended December 31, 2002, because we had only nine months of operating results since our predecessor emerged from bankruptcy in such fiscal year. In connection with our predecessor’s emergence from bankruptcy, we reflected the terms of the plan of reorganization in our consolidated financial statements by adopting the fresh-start reporting provisions of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, “Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code”. Under fresh-start reporting, a new reporting entity is deemed to be created and the recorded amounts of assets and liabilities are adjusted to reflect their estimated fair values. For accounting purposes, the fresh-start adjustments have been reflected in the operating results of our predecessor for the three months ended March 31, 2002. ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are one of the largest providers of home medical equipment and related products and services in the United States, with a comprehensive offering of respiratory therapy and durable home medical equipment and related services. We provide equipment and services in 48 states through approximately 490 operating centers located primarily in non-urban markets. We provide our equipment and services principally to older patients with breathing disorders, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, or COPD (which include chronic bronchitis and emphysema), obstructive sleep apnea and other cardiopulmonary disorders. Our revenues are principally derived from respiratory equipment rental and related services (87.8% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005), which include rental of oxygen concentrators, liquid oxygen systems, portable oxygen systems, ventilator therapy systems, nebulizer equipment and sleep disorder breathing therapy systems, and the sale of nebulizer medications. We also generate revenues through the rental and sale of durable medical equipment (11.2% of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005), including hospital beds, wheelchairs, walkers, patient aids and ancillary supplies. We derive our revenues principally from reimbursement by third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Veterans Administration (VA) and private insurers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated net revenues of $533.2 million and net earnings of $5.5 million. For the same period, net cash provided by operating activities was $60.7 million and net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities were $109.5 million and $1.7 million, respectively. Earnings from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $106.2 million. See “Selected Financial Data,” note (5) on page 39 for a detailed definition of EBITDA. Our Service Lines Respiratory Therapy We provide a range of respiratory therapy equipment, including oxygen concentrators, liquid oxygen systems, portable oxygen systems, ventilator therapy systems, nebulizer equipment, and sleep disorder breathing therapy systems, for rental or sale. Patients in need of respiratory equipment and services suffer from breathing disorders, such as COPD, obstructive sleep apnea and other cardiopulmonary disorders. Individuals diagnosed with COPD or similar diseases are often elderly, and generally will require treatment for the rest of their lives. 2 Table of Contents The majority of our respiratory therapy equipment is rented and reimbursed on a monthly basis. We also generate revenue from the sale of inhalation medications, including albuterol and ipratropium. We provide driver technicians who deliver and/or install the respiratory care equipment, instruct the patient in its use, refill the high pressure and liquid oxygen systems as necessary and provide continuing maintenance of the equipment. Respiratory therapy is monitored by licensed respiratory therapists and other clinical staff as prescribed by physicians. We currently employ approximately 522 full time respiratory therapists. Respiratory therapy equipment rental and related services represented 87.8% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our home respiratory care equipment includes three types of oxygen systems: • stationary concentrators, which extract oxygen from room air and generally provide the least expensive supply of oxygen for patients who require a continuous supply of oxygen, are not ambulatory and who do not require excessive flow rates; • liquid oxygen systems, which store oxygen under pressure in a liquid form and act as both stationary and portable systems; and • high pressure oxygen cylinders, which are typically portable systems that permit greatly enhanced patient mobility. Other home respiratory care equipment includes non-invasive positive pressure ventilators (“NPPV”), nebulizer devices, bi-level positive airway pressure and continuous positive airway pressure (“CPAP”) devices. NPPVs are used by individuals who suffer from certain other respiratory conditions by mechanically assisting the individual to breathe. Nebulizer devices aerosolize our nebulizer medications and allow the medications to be inhaled directly into the patient’s lungs. CPAP devices deliver pressure into a patient’s airway through a specially designed nasal mask or pillow to prevent airway collapse during sleep. Durable Medical Equipment We provide a comprehensive line of durable medical equipment, such as hospital beds, wheelchairs, walkers, patient aids and other ancillary supplies, for rental or sale, to serve the specific needs of our patients. Typically, lower cost items, such as patient aids and walkers, are sold and higher cost items, such as hospital beds and wheelchairs, are rented. We consider durable medical equipment to be a complementary offering to respiratory therapy equipment and related services. Our Operations Organization We have approximately 490 operating centers, which operate through three divisions. Each of these divisions is managed by a team of division managers who provide management services to our operating centers in four service categories: operations, sales, billing and collection and clinical. These managers provide key support services to our operating centers, including billing, purchasing, equipment maintenance and repair and warehousing. Each operating center delivers equipment and services to patients in their homes and other care sites through the operating center’s delivery fleet and qualified personnel. Operational control, purchasing, operating policies and sales functions for our divisions are administered centrally at our principal offices in Orlando, Florida through our Chief Operating Officer, clinical functions are administered through our Chief Clinical Officer who reports to our Chief Operating Officer and financial control, billing and collection services are provided through our Chief Financial Officer. We believe that this management structure provides control and consistency among our divisions and operating centers and allows us to implement standard policies and procedures across a large number of geographically remote operating centers. 3 Table of Contents Operating Systems and Controls Our operating systems provide management with information to measure and evaluate key components of our operations. We have a proprietary billing system that is scalable and is used for substantially all of our billing sources, including Medicare, our largest source of revenues. All Medicare claims are aggregated, processed, archived and transmitted to Medicare on a daily basis. The process is highly automated and has proven to be reliable and cost-effective. Our billing and collection departments work closely with personnel at operating center locations and third-party payors and are responsible for the review of patient coverage, the adequacy and timeliness of documentation and the follow-up with third-party payors to expedite reimbursement payments. We communicate with our operating centers through an intranet-based system that provides our managers with detailed information that allows us to address operating efficiencies. We believe this reporting capability allows our managers to operate their businesses more effectively and allocate their resources more appropriately. We will continue to improve our operating efficiencies in order to position ourselves for future growth by utilizing our proprietary information technology platform, as well as third-party software products, to improve our billing, compliance and inventory systems. In 2005, we reduced the number of billing centers from 11 to 7. The reduction of billing centers allows for increased control with fewer individuals administering the process, reduces our lease costs and facilitates the further implementation of compliance controls. In addition, we are continuing to develop our information technology platform that we use to track inventory on a store-by-store basis. We believe that this may help to analyze whether our inventory is being used at its most efficient levels by tracking the useful life, maintenance and location of the equipment at all times. Payors We derive our revenues principally from reimbursement by third party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from patients and, in most instances, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance carriers, as well as directly from patients under co-insurance provisions. The following table sets forth our payor mix: Year EndedDecember 31,2003 Year EndedDecember 31,2004 Year EndedDecember 31,2005 Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs (primarily Veterans Administration) 71.1 % 71.0 % 66.7 % Commercial payors 24.3 % 25.5 % 29.9 % Private payors 4.6 % 3.5 % 3.4 % We contract with insurers and managed care entities on a local, regional and national basis. We generally contract with those insurers and managed care entities having a significant patient population in the areas served by us, typically on a fee-for-service basis. We have not historically contracted with insurers or managed care entities on a national basis; however, we are currently a party to several national service agreements with managed care companies and are pursuing additional managed care relationships on a national level. Pursuant to our contracts with the Veterans Administration (“VA”), we provide equipment and services to persons eligible for VA benefits in the regions covered by the contracts. The VA contracts typically provide for an annual term, subject to four or five one-year renewal periods unless terminated or not renewed by the VA. Our Company History Rotech Healthcare Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on March 15, 2002. Rotech Medical Corporation, our predecessor, was founded in 1981. In October 1997, Rotech Medical Corporation was acquired by Integrated Health Services, Inc. (“IHS”), a large, publicly-held provider of post-acute and related specialty 4 Table of Contents health care services and products. Following the acquisition, Rotech Medical Corporation operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of IHS. On February 2, 2000, IHS and substantially all of its subsidiaries, including Rotech Medical Corporation filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court in the District of Delaware. The principal reason for the commencement of Rotech Medical Corporation’s Chapter 11 case was that Rotech Medical Corporation had jointly guaranteed approximately $2.3 billion of obligations of IHS, under credit agreements with IHS’ senior creditors. IHS defaulted on its obligations under those agreements in 1999. Rotech Medical Corporation’s plan of reorganization was confirmed on February 13, 2002 (and became final on February 25, 2002) and became effective on March 26, 2002. As a result of the reorganization, substantially all of Rotech Medical Corporation’s assets, business and operations were transferred to us, an independent company. On December 20, 2004, the Bankruptcy Court entered a final decree closing Rotech Medical Corporation’s bankruptcy case. Senior Secured Credit Facilities On March 26, 2002, we entered into senior secured credit facilities for up to $275 million, with UBS Warburg LLC and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as arrangers, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners, L.P., as syndication agent, UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of other financial institutions. The senior secured credit facilities consist of: • a $75 million five-year revolving credit facility; and • a $200 million six-year term loan facility. The amount available for borrowings under the revolving credit facility is the lesser of (a) the total commitment amount of the revolving credit facility minus the aggregate outstanding balance of revolving credit loans (including obligations in respect of letters of credit) and (b) certain percentages of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ eligible accounts receivable, eligible inventory and eligible property, plant and equipment, minus the aggregate outstanding balance of revolving credit loans (including obligations in respect of letters of credit) and the term loans. The term loan was drawn in full on the consummation of our predecessor’s plan of reorganization, which occurred contemporaneously with the sale of our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012. The term loan is amortized with 1% of the term loan payable in each of the first five years and 95% of the initial aggregate term loan to be payable in year six, 2008. During 2005, we made payments on our term loan in the amount of $0.4 million. At December 31, 2005, the revolving credit facility had not been drawn upon, although standby letters of credit totaling $12.7 million have been issued under this credit facility. Interest rates and fees The interest rates per annum applicable to the senior secured credit facilities is LIBOR or, at our option, the alternate base rate, which is the higher of (a) the rate of interest publicly announced by UBS AG as its prime rate in effect at its Stamford Branch, and (b) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.50%, in each case, plus the applicable margin (as defined below). The applicable margin (a) with respect to the revolving credit facility, is determined in accordance with a performance grid based on our consolidated leverage ratio and ranges from 3.25% to 2.25% in the case of LIBOR rate advances and from 2.25% to 1.25% in the case of alternate base rate advances, and (b) with respect to the term loan facility, is 3.00% in the case of LIBOR rate advances and 2.00% in the case of alternate base rate advances. The default rate on the senior secured credit facilities is 2.00% above the otherwise applicable interest rate. We are also obligated to pay a commitment fee ranging, depending on usage, from 0.75% to 0.50% on the unused portion of our revolving credit facility. Covenants The senior secured credit facilities contain customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, without limitation, limitations on indebtedness; limitations on liens; limitations on guarantee obligations; limitations on 5 Table of Contents mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; limitations on sales of assets; limitations on leases; limitations on dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock; limitations on investments, loans and advances; limitations on capital expenditures; limitations on optional payments and modifications of subordinated and other debt instruments; limitations on transactions with affiliates; limitations on granting negative pledges; and limitations on changes in lines of business. Our senior secured credit facilities also contain customary financial covenants including, maintenance of the following ratios: (a) a consolidated total leverage ratio, (b) a consolidated senior leverage ratio, (c) a consolidated interest coverage ratio and (d) a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Security and guarantees Our obligations under the credit facilities are guaranteed by each of our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries, excluding specified immaterial subsidiaries. All obligations under the credit facilities and the guarantees are secured by a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including intellectual property, real property and all of the capital stock of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, excluding immaterial subsidiaries in the process of dissolution and other specified immaterial subsidiaries and limited, in the case of each foreign subsidiary, to 65% of the value of the stock of such entity. Senior Subordinated Notes In March 2002, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $300 million of 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012 and received net proceeds of approximately $290 million, after deducting the initial purchasers’ discount and our expenses. We distributed the net proceeds from the sale of the notes to our predecessor as partial consideration in exchange for substantially all of the assets used in connection with its business and operations as part of the restructuring and related transactions involving our predecessor and us. Subsequently, our predecessor distributed the net proceeds to its former creditors as provided in its plan of reorganization. We did not retain any of the proceeds from the sale of the notes for use in our business. Government Regulation The health care industry is subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels. The industry is also subject to frequent regulatory changes. Our business is impacted not only by those laws and regulations that are directly applicable to us, but also by certain laws and regulations that are applicable to our managed care and other patients. State laws also govern, among other things, pharmacies, nursing services, distribution of medical equipment and certain types of home health activities and apply to those locations involved in such activities. Certain of our employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing the ethics and professional practice of respiratory therapy, pharmacy and nursing. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business, we could suffer civil and/or criminal penalties and we could be excluded from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The federal government has made a policy decision to significantly increase the financial resources allocated to enforcing the health care fraud and abuse laws. Private insurers and various state enforcement agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny of health care claims in an effort to identify and prosecute fraudulent and abusive practices in the health care area. Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement. As part of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, Congress enacted the Medicare program which provides for hospital, physician and other statutorily-defined health benefits for qualified individuals, including persons over 65 and the disabled. The Medicaid program, also established by Congress in 1965, is a joint federal and state program that provides certain statutorily-defined health benefits to financially needy individuals who are blind, disabled, aged or members of families with dependent children. In 6 Table of Contents addition, Medicaid may cover financially needy children, refugees and pregnant women. In 2005, Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs (primarily Veterans Administration contracts) accounted for approximately 66.7% of our revenues. Medicare Laws and Regulations. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997, or BBA 97, granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. On February 11, 2003, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, made effective an interim final rule implementing the inherent reasonableness authority, which allows the agency and carriers to adjust payment amounts by up to 15% per year for certain items and services covered by Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and the carriers to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what is a realistic and equitable payment amount. Also, under the regulation, CMS and the carriers will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. On December 13, 2005, CMS published a final rule implementing the inherent reasonableness authority, which became effective on February 11, 2006. This final rule establishes regulatory criteria that are substantially the same as those put in place under the earlier interim final rule. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS has the discretion to reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, or HME, and other non-HME services to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative treatment that meets the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. Least costly alternative, or LCA, determinations are applied to particular products and services by CMS and its carriers through the informal notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME. This process need not be followed for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness or least costly alternative authority, CMS and the carriers may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA significantly changed how Medicare Part B pays for our products, including HME items, such as oxygen, oxygen equipment and nebulizers, as well as inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. These changes include the following: (1) Reductions and Payment Freeze for HME. Currently, Medicare payments to us for our HME products are based on the lesser of the actual charge for the item or the applicable Medicare fee schedule amount. Under MMA, from 2004 through 2008, most payments for HME are set at the 2003 level and, therefore, are “frozen,” unless the item becomes subject to further reductions based on Federal Employee Health Benefits Program median payment amounts (as described below), or is subject to competitive bidding. As of January 1, 2005, the fee schedule amounts for certain items of HME, including wheelchairs and nebulizers, were reduced based on the percentage difference between the amount of payment otherwise determined for 2002 and the median amount of payment under the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, as determined by the Office of Inspector General of DHHS, or OIG. The FEHBP adjusted payments are to remain “frozen” through 2008 unless the particular item becomes subject to competitive bidding. The fee schedule amounts for oxygen and oxygen equipment were also to be reduced based on this calculation as of January 1, 2005. Because of a delay in publication of the data needed to set these amounts, the oxygen fee schedule amounts were not reduced until the end of March 2005. According to a March 2005 OIG report, in 2002, FEHBP median payments were approximately 12.4% less than Medicare payments for stationary home oxygen equipment and approximately 10.8% less than Medicare payments for portable home oxygen equipment. The March 2005 report superseded an earlier September 2004 OIG report that had found greater differences between FEHBP and Medicare payment rates. On the same day that the OIG published its final 2005 report, CMS published 2005 payment amounts for home oxygen equipment and 7 Table of Contents instructed the carriers to implement the payment amounts no later than April 8, 2005. Due to the delay in publication of the finalized OIG report, CMS provided that Medicare claims for oxygen equipment furnished on or after January 1, 2005 which were submitted prior to the effective date are to be paid based on 2004 monthly payment amounts. Medicare claims submitted on or after the effective date are to be paid according to the 2005 payment amounts. No retroactive adjustments are to be made to those claims submitted prior to implementation of the 2005 payment amounts. We cannot predict the outcome of any future rulemaking by CMS. Any additional reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for home oxygen equipment could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. (2) Implementation of Competitive Bidding for HME. Starting in 2007, Medicare is scheduled to begin to phase in a nationwide competitive bidding program to replace the existing fee schedule payment methodology. The program is to begin in 10 high-population metropolitan statistical areas, or MSAs, expanding to 80 MSAs in 2009 and additional areas thereafter. Under competitive bidding, suppliers compete for the right to provide items to beneficiaries in a defined region. Only a limited number of suppliers will be selected in any given MSA, resulting in restricted supplier choices for beneficiaries. MMA permits certain exemptions from competitive bidding, including exemptions for rural areas and areas with low population density within urban areas that are not competitive, unless there is a significant national market through mail-order for the particular item. A large number of our facilities are located in such areas. However, the criteria for how the exemption will be applied have not yet been determined. Therefore, the impact on our business is uncertain. Also, MMA requires that contracts may only be awarded to suppliers that meet certain quality and financial standards and that the amounts paid to suppliers under the contracts must be less than the amount paid under the current system. Beginning in 2009, CMS may use information on payments from the competitive bidding program to adjust payments in regions not subject to competitive bidding. CMS has not yet published the proposed regulations regarding the implementation of competitive bidding. The inherent reasonableness interim final regulation (see above) remains in effect after MMA, but the legislation precludes the use of inherent reasonableness authority for devices subject to competitive bidding. At this time, we do not know which of our products will be subject to inherent reasonableness and/or competitive bidding, nor can we predict the impact that inherent reasonableness and competitive bidding will have on our business. (3) Reduction in Payments for Inhalation Drugs. MMA also revises the payment methodology for certain drugs, including inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. Prior to MMA, Medicare paid for these drugs based on average wholesale price, or AWP, as reported by drug manufacturers. Beginning January 1, 2004, Medicare payments were reduced for most of our Part B inhalation drugs to 80% of AWP from 95% of AWP, a reduction of approximately 15 basis points. As of January 1, 2005, as required by MMA, payment amounts for most drugs are based on the average sales price, or ASP. These reductions in Medicare payment rates for inhalation drugs reduced our net revenues by approximately $10 million in 2004 and approximately $39 million in 2005. The reduction in 2005 was partially offset by shifts in patient and product mix. Beginning in 2006, MMA requires that payment amounts for most drugs are to be based on either ASP or competitive bidding for drugs administered by physicians. On June 27, 2005, CMS issued an interim final rule on the Part B competitive bidding program for outpatient drugs and biologicals, or CAP. On November 21, 2005, CMS issued a final rule on CAP. CAP is to begin on July 1, 2006. Inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers are not to be included in the initial phase of the CAP. This means that 2006 payment amounts for inhalation drugs administered by physicians are to be determined based upon ASP. ASP is defined statutorily as the volume weighted average of manufacturers’ average sales prices, calculated by adding the manufacturers’ average sales prices for the drug in the fiscal quarter to the number of units sold and then divided by the total number of units sold for all national drug codes assigned to the product. Under the ASP methodology, Medicare generally will pay 106% of ASP for multiple source drugs and 106% of the lesser of ASP or wholesale acquisition cost for single source drugs. In addition, for 2006, if the ASP exceeds the widely available market price by more than 5%, CMS may substitute the widely 8 Table of Contents available market price for the ASP. ASP payment rates are calculated using the most recent manufacturer data available. Manufacturer ASP data submissions are due to CMS not later than 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter. Quarterly updates are to be implemented to reflect these quarterly submissions by manufacturers. For example, second quarter 2005 data was used to calculate the ASP payment amounts for the fourth quarter of 2005. ASP payment amounts for our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For each of the quarters of 2005, as well as the first quarter of 2006, the ASP payment amounts for many drugs, including two prevalent inhalation drugs, albuterol sulfate and ipratropium bromide, are significantly less than the payment amounts for these drugs in 2004. The payment rate, as posted by CMS, for albuterol sulfate was reduced from $0.39 per milligram in 2004 to $0.064 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and continued to slightly decline in the first quarter of 2006, to $0.060. The payment rate, as posted by CMS, for ipratropium bromide was reduced from $2.82 per milligram in 2004 to $0.165 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and increased slightly in the first quarter of 2006, to $0.227. Effective January 1, 2006, CMS established a new billing code for compounded budesonide, which includes compounded inhalation medications that we provide to Medicare beneficiaries based on a physician’s prescription. Medicare payment for compounded budesonide, beginning January 1, 2006, is based on pharmacy invoices submitted for individual claims. If the resulting payment rates using the invoice methodology are significantly less than the 2005 ASP payment rates, this payment reduction could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Given the overall reduction in payment for inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers, for 2005, CMS established a $57 dispensing fee for inhalation drugs shipped to a beneficiary for a 30-day period or $80 for a 90-day period. In calculating these 2005 dispensing fees, CMS took into account data submitted by members of the public, including a report commissioned by the American Association for Homecare, or AAHomecare, as well as an October 2004 report by the United States Government Accountability Office, or GAO, regarding inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. The GAO recommended that CMS evaluate the costs of dispensing inhalation therapy drugs and modify the existing dispensing fee, if warranted, to ensure that it reflects the costs necessary for dispensation of inhalation therapy drugs. On November 2, 2005, CMS issued the 2006 physician fee schedule final rule, in which the agency reduced the dispensing fee for inhalation drugs furnished to beneficiaries. For 2006, the dispensing fee is $57 for the first 30-day period in which a Medicare beneficiary uses inhalation drugs and $33 for inhalation drugs dispensed for each subsequent 30-day period. For a 90-day supply of inhalation drugs, the dispensing fee is $66. We believe that the reductions in the 2006 Medicare dispensing fees will result in a reduction in our 2006 projected revenue of approximately $15 million. We cannot predict the impact that any future rulemaking by CMS might have on our business. If the dispensing fees are reduced or eliminated in 2007 or beyond, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Medicare-reimbursed inhalation drug therapies provided by us accounted for approximately 18.2% of our recorded revenues. The 2005 dispensing fees offset to some extent the reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs established under the ASP methodology. While we were able, based upon the increased dispensing fees, to continue to offer inhalation drugs to Medicare patients in 2005, the reductions in dispensing fees for 2006, along with the pricing changes resulting from the ASP payment rates, are resulting in a further material reduction in the revenues and profitability of our inhalation drug business, and we cannot predict whether it will continue to be economically feasible for us to provide inhalation drugs in the future. (4) Implementation of Certain Clinical Conditions and Quality Standards. MMA requires that new clinical conditions of coverage be developed for HME, with those products perceived as having a higher utilization to be given priority for implementation. Although not yet implemented, the quality standards being developed by CMS and are to be applied by independent accreditation organizations. As an entity that bills Medicare and receives payment from the program, we will be subject to these standards. On September 23, 2005, CMS released draft quality standards for comment, which are expected to be finalized and published in spring of 2006. The draft standards consist of business-related standards, such as financial 9 Table of Contents and human resources management requirements, which would be applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, which focus on product specialization and service standards. The proposed product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and BiPAP, hospital beds, support surfaces, power and manual wheelchairs, and other mobility equipment. CMS announced that it intends to introduce additional product-specific quality standards for other products in the future, and this could include standards that impact us. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions or final quality standards will have on our business. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, which was signed into law on February 8, 2006, also made certain changes to the way Medicare Part B pays for our HME products, including capped rental items and oxygen equipment. For capped rental items, including hospital beds, nebulizers and power wheelchairs, Medicare has in the past paid a monthly rental fee for a period not to exceed 15 months of continuous use. Under the DRA, the maximum number of months for which Medicare is to make payment for such equipment decreased from 15 months to 13 months of continuous use, after which time ownership is automatically transferred to the beneficiary. This provision is effective for items furnished for which the first rental month is during or after January 2006. As to power wheelchairs, the DRA preserves an existing provision requiring that beneficiaries be given the option to purchase the power wheelchair at the time it is furnished. For oxygen equipment, prior to the DRA, Medicare made monthly rental payments indefinitely, provided medical need continued. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for oxygen equipment at 36 months of continuous use, after which time ownership of the equipment transfers to the beneficiary. For purposes of this cap, the DRA provides for a new 36 month rental period beginning January 1, 2006 for all oxygen equipment. This new 36 month rental period applies for beneficiaries starting to use the equipment as well as for those who have been using it prior to 2006. In addition to the changes in the duration of the rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment, the DRA authorizes payments for servicing and maintenance of the products after ownership transfers to the beneficiary if the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services determines the servicing and maintenance is reasonable and necessary. Prior to the changes by the DRA to the duration of the capped rental period and the new transfer of ownership requirement, Medicare payment for the capped rental items was made automatically every six months for servicing and maintenance for those products for which a Medicare supplier retained ownership after the capped rental period ended. We do not expect the changes in rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment to have a material impact on our business in 2006. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that the change in the rental period for oxygen equipment will have on our business in future years. Further with respect to changes in rental periods, on January 26, 2006, CMS released a final rule revising the payment classification of certain respiratory assist devices. Those respiratory assist devices that have a backup rate feature were reclassified as capped rental items effective April 1, 2006. Under the rule, for those Medicare beneficiaries who received these devices prior to April 1, 2006, only the rental payments for months after the effective date will count toward the 13 month cap. At this time, we do not believe that the change will have a material adverse impact on our business. Professional Licensure Nurses, pharmacists and other health care professionals employed by us are required to be individually licensed or certified under applicable state law. We take steps to assure that our employees possess all necessary licenses and certifications, and we believe that our employees comply in all material respects with applicable licensure or certification laws. Pharmacy Licensing and Registration. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain 10 Table of Contents licenses from each state to which we deliver pharmaceuticals. Most states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), adopt and enforce the official standards of the US Pharmacopeia (USP) as the official compendia of drug standards. We are subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws vary from state to state and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing changes in state pharmacy laws and regulations. In addition, the USP is frequently supplemented and amended to create new standards for drugs. We continuously monitor state activities and the USP and we have policies in place that we believe substantially comply with all state licensing and pharmacy laws currently applicable to our business. We are engaged in activities designed to achieve compliance with these policies although there can be no assurance that we always operate in full compliance with our policies. Further, there can be no assurance that we are fully and immediately in compliance with all laws, regulations or standards at all times, as licenses may lapse and laws may change or be misinterpreted or overlooked. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws, including the USP, through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our state licensure or for other reasons. The FDA generally defers to state pharmacy boards during routine inspections of pharmacies, but will intervene and exercise its enforcement authority if it determines that any of a pharmacy’s activities are more like those of a manufacturer or if FDA determines that the public health is at risk. See “Government Regulation—Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.” Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension of or refusal to renew licensure, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. If we are unable to obtain and maintain our licenses in one or more states, or if such states place burdensome restrictions or limitations on pharmacies, our ability to operate in such states would be limited, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), the FDA imposes stringent regulations on the distribution, labeling, and other aspects of our medical gas and pharmacy operations. In particular, our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations, which impose certain quality control, documentation, labeling and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. We are required to register our medical gas facilities with the FDA, and are subject to periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA for compliance with the cGMP and other regulatory requirements. In September 2005, FDA inspected our medical gas facility in Coeur D’Alene, Idaho. FDA presented us with a Form FD-483 at the conclusion of the inspection noting two inspectional observations. The Company responded in writing to the FDA within two weeks of the inspection identifying the actions we have taken to correct the deficiencies identified in the Form FD-483. In addition, following the inspection we conducted a general review of the compliance status of our medical gas facilities with the cGMP regulations and we are currently revising and updating our practices and procedures for medical gas receipt, processing and distribution, and are enhancing our audit and training functions in connection with the results of such review. Accordingly, we are currently expending significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations at each of our medical gas facilities. However, there can be no assurance that this effort will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with the cGMP regulations. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could subject the Company to possible legal or regulatory action, such as Warning Letters, product seizure or recalls, suspension of operations at a single facility or several facilities, temporary or permanent injunctions, or possible civil or criminal penalties. Federal and state laws also require that we follow specific labeling, reporting and record-keeping requirements for pharmaceutical products that we distribute. Federal law exempts many pharmaceuticals and medical devices from federal labeling and packaging requirements so long as they are not adulterated or misbranded and are dispensed in accordance with and pursuant to a valid prescription. Some of the pharmacists at our Pulmo-Dose pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky dispense compounded preparations of drug products that are not commercially available, based upon a patient’s individual need and at a physician’s specific request. Pharmacy compounding, or the preparation of a dosage, combination or variation of a drug that has not been approved by FDA, is considered to be within the practice of pharmacy and is regulated 11 Table of Contents primarily under state law. We have policies and procedures for compounding practices that we believe are consistent with state law requirements and the USP. Despite our efforts to comply with these standards, we may occasionally determine through subsequent testing that a preparation does not have acceptable strength, purity or sterility. In such a case, we may be required to dispose of the preparation, discontinue the preparation, stop distribution of the preparation or initiate a recall of the preparation. Although pharmacy compounding is primarily regulated by state law, the FDA asserts that it has jurisdiction over pharmacy compounding. In May 2002, FDA issued a Compliance Policy Guide for Staff and Industry, Section 460.200, setting forth FDA’s enforcement policy on pharmacy compounding. We believe that our compounding activities are consistent with the practice of pharmacy under state law and as provided in the FDA’s Compliance Policy Guide. However, some of the activities that we consider to be compounding, the FDA may consider to constitute the manufacturing of a new drug, because the FDA may define the scope of drug manufacturing activities more broadly than we or the state pharmacy boards do. FDA may inspect a pharmacy that it believes may not be complying with regulatory requirements or that may be engaged in activities prohibited by the FFDCA. On August 1, 2005, FDA initiated an inspection of our compounding pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky. The FDA completed its audit on August 12, 2005 and FDA, at the conclusion of the audit, presented the Company with an Form FD-483 noting three inspectional observations. The Company submitted a response to the Form FD-483 and continues to engage in ongoing communications with the FDA regarding the inspection and FDA’s continuing review of our pharmacy’s activities. We have cooperated with the FDA during the course of the inspection and will continue to cooperate regarding any required follow-up activities. However, there is no assurance that FDA will agree that we are not a drug manufacturer and that our operations are in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. If FDA determines that our compounding activities do not comply with regulatory requirements or are more consistent with those of a drug manufacturer, FDA could require us to discontinue those activities and we could be subject to enforcement action. Claims Audits Durable medical equipment regional carriers are private organizations that contract to serve as the government’s agents for the processing of certain claims for items and services provided under Part B of the Medicare program. These carriers and Medicaid agencies periodically conduct pre-payment and post-payment reviews and other audits of claims submitted. Medicare and Medicaid agents are under increasing pressure to scrutinize health care claims more closely. In addition, the industry in which we operate is generally characterized by long collection cycles for accounts receivable due to complex and time-consuming documentation and claims processing and other requirements for obtaining reimbursement from private and governmental third-party payors. Such protracted collection cycles can lead to delays in obtaining reimbursement. Furthermore, reviews and/or similar audits or investigations of our claims and related documentation could result in denials of claims for payment submitted by us. The government could demand significant refunds or recoupments of amounts paid by the government for claims which, upon subsequent investigation, are determined by the government to be inadequately supported by the required documentation. The Anti-Kickback Statute As a provider of services under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to the Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse laws (sometimes referred to as the “Anti-Kickback statute”). At the federal level, the Anti-Kickback statute prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing any remuneration, including a bribe, kickback or rebate, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce the referral of patients, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging for products or services covered by federal health care programs. Federal health care programs have been defined to include plans and programs that provide health benefits funded by the federal government, including Medicare and Medicaid, among others. Violations of the Anti-Kickback statute may result in civil and criminal penalties including fines of up to $25,000 per violation, civil monetary penalties of up to $50,000 per violation, assessments of up to three times the amount of the prohibited remuneration, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in the federal health care programs. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS has published regulations that identify a limited number of specific business practices that fall within safe harbors which are deemed not to violate the Anti-Kickback 12 Table of Contents statute. Although we attempt to structure our business relationships to meet safe harbor requirements, it is possible that not all of our business relationships comply with the elements of one or more safe harbors. Conformity with the safe harbors is not mandatory and failure to meet all of the requirements of an applicable safe harbor does not make conduct per se illegal. The Office of Inspector General is authorized to issue advisory opinions regarding the interpretation and applicability of the federal Anti-Kickback statute, including whether an activity constitutes grounds for the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions. We have not, however, sought such an opinion. In addition, a number of states in which we operate have anti-fraud and anti-kickback laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute that prohibit certain direct or indirect payments if such arrangements are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients or the furnishing of goods or services. Some states’ anti-fraud and anti-kickback laws apply only to goods and services covered by Medicaid. Other states’ anti-fraud and anti-kickback laws apply to all health care goods and services, regardless of whether the source of payment is governmental or private. Further, many states prohibit revenue sharing or fee splitting arrangements between physicians and other third parties. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include exclusion from state-funded health care programs, loss of licensure and civil and criminal penalties. Such statutes vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the courts or regulatory agencies. Physician Self-Referrals Certain provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, commonly known as “Stark II,” prohibit us, subject to certain exceptions, from submitting claims to the Medicare and Medicaid programs for “designated health services” if we have a financial relationship with the physician making the referral for such services or with a member of such physician’s immediate family. The term “designated health services” includes several services commonly performed or supplied by us, including durable medical equipment, home health services and parenteral and enteral nutrition. In addition, “financial relationship” is broadly defined to include any ownership or investment interest or compensation arrangement involving remuneration between us and the physician at issue. Violations of Stark II may result in loss of Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, civil penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law’s referral prohibition may be subject to penalties as well. On January 4, 2001, CMS issued the first of two phases of final regulations (“Phase I”) to clarify the meaning and application of Stark II. On March 26, 2004, CMS released the second phase of the final regulations (“Phase II”). The Phase I and Phase II final regulations address the primary substantive aspects of the prohibition and various exceptions. The Phase I regulations defined previously undefined key terms, clarified prior definitions, and created exceptions for certain “indirect compensation arrangements,” “fair market value” transactions, arrangements involving non-monetary compensation up to $300, and risk-sharing arrangements, among others. For certain indirect compensation relationships, the regulations permit providers to bill for items provided in connection with an otherwise prohibited referral, if the provider does not know, and does not act in reckless disregard or deliberate ignorance of, the identity of the referring physician. Phase I of the final regulations became effective on January 4, 2002, except with respect to enforcement of the prohibition’s application to certain percentage physician compensation arrangements, which effectiveness was delayed several times by CMS. In the Phase II final regulations, which became effective on July 26, 2004, CMS addressed remaining Stark exceptions not addressed in the Phase I regulation—primarily related to compensation arrangements, but also addressed certain exceptions related to ownership and investment interests, reporting requirements and sanctions. CMS also finalized its approach to percentage compensation arrangements, permitting them in certain circumstances. In addition, a number of the states in which we operate have similar or broader prohibitions on physician self-referrals. Finally, enforcement activity and resulting case law developments have increased the legal risks of physician compensation arrangements that do not satisfy the terms of an exception to Stark II, especially in the area of joint venture arrangements with physicians. 13 Table of Contents False Claims We are subject to state and federal laws that govern the submission of claims for reimbursement. The federal False Claims Act imposes civil liability on individuals or entities that submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government. Violations of the False Claims Act may result in treble damages, civil monetary penalties for each false claim submitted and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, we could be subject to criminal penalties under a variety of federal statutes to the extent that we knowingly violate legal requirements under federal health programs or otherwise present false or fraudulent claims or documentation to the government. The False Claims Act also allows a private individual to bring a qui tam suit on behalf of the government against a health care provider for violations of the False Claims Act. A qui tam suit may be brought by, with only a few exceptions, any private citizen who has material information of a false claim that has not yet been disclosed previously. Even if disclosed, the original source of the information leading to the public disclosure may still pursue such a suit. Although a corporate insider is often the plaintiff in such actions, an increasing number of outsiders are pursuing such suits. In a qui tam suit, the private plaintiff is responsible for initiating a lawsuit that may eventually lead to the government recovering money of which it was defrauded. After the private plaintiff has initiated the lawsuit, the government must decide whether to intervene in the lawsuit and become the primary prosecutor. In the event the government declines to join the lawsuit, the private plaintiff may choose to pursue the case alone, in which case the private plaintiff’s counsel will have primary control over the prosecution (although the government must be kept apprised of the progress of the lawsuit and will still receive at least 70% of any recovered amounts). In return for bringing the suit on the government’s behalf, the statute provides that the private plaintiff is to receive up to 30% of the recovered amount from the litigation proceeds if the litigation is successful. The number of qui tam suits brought against health care providers has increased dramatically. In addition, at least five states—California, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee and Texas—have enacted laws modeled after the False Claims Act that allow those states to recover money which was fraudulently obtained by a health care provider from the state (e.g., Medicaid funds provided by the state). Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, mandates, among other things, the establishment of regulatory standards addressing the electronic exchange of health information, standards for the privacy and security of health information and standards for assigning unique health identifiers to health care providers. Sanctions for failure to comply with HIPAA standards include civil and criminal penalties. Three standards have been promulgated under HIPAA with which we currently are required to comply. The Standards for Electronic Transactions require the use of standardized transactions and code sets for common health care transactions involving the exchange of certain types of information, including health care claims or equivalent encounter information, plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment and disenrollment, payment and remittance advice, health plan premium payments, and coordination of benefits. The Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Information restricts use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information, called protected health information, or “PHI”. These Privacy Standards not only require our compliance with standards restricting the use and disclosure of PHI, but also require us to obtain satisfactory assurances that any business associate of ours who has access to our PHI similarly will safeguard such PHI. The Security Standards require us to implement certain security measures to protect electronic PHI. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with each of these HIPAA standards. One other standard has been promulgated under HIPAA, although compliance with this standard is not yet required. CMS published a final rule covering the assignment of Unique Health Identifiers for Health Care Providers. The rule calls for the adoption of the National Provider Identifier as the standard unique health 14 Table of Contents identifier for health care providers to use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions. We are required to comply with this standard by May 23, 2007. We have evaluated this rule to determine the effects of the rule on our business, and we believe that we will have taken the appropriate steps to ensure that we will comply with this standard in all material respects by the compliance deadline. HIPAA also has created health care related crimes, and granted authority to the Secretary of the DHHS to impose certain civil penalties. Particularly, the Secretary may exclude from Medicare any individual with a direct or indirect ownership interest in an entity convicted of health care fraud or excluded from the program. HIPAA encourages the reporting of health care fraud by allowing reporting individuals to share in any recovery made by the government. HIPAA also requires new programs to control fraud and abuse, and new investigations, audits and inspections. Under HIPAA it is a crime to: • knowingly and willfully commit a federal health care offense relating to a health care benefit program; and • knowingly and willfully falsify, conceal or cover up a material fact or make any materially false or fraudulent statements in connection with claims and payment for health care services by a health care benefit plan. These provisions of HIPAA create criminal sanctions for situations that were previously handled exclusively through civil repayments of overpayments, off-sets and fines. While the Company believes it complies in all material respects with these HIPAA requirements, we cannot provide any assurance that governmental authorities will find that our business practices comply with current or future administrative or judicial interpretations of HIPAA and its implementing regulations. A violation could subject us to penalties, fines or possible exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid. Such sanctions could reduce our revenue or profits. The False Statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact by any trick, scheme or device or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines and/or imprisonment. Compliance Program In addition to our Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General described below under the caption “Corporate Integrity Agreement”, we have several voluntary programs to monitor compliance with federal and state laws and regulations applicable to health care entities which are designed to minimize the likelihood that we would engage in conduct or enter into contracts in violation of the fraud and abuse laws. While we believe that our compliance program meets the relevant guidance provided by the Office of Inspector General of the DHHS, we cannot provide any assurance that current or future administrative or judicial interpretations of existing laws or legislative enactment of new laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Health Care Reform Legislation Economic, political and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. Health care reform proposals have been formulated by the legislative and administrative branches of the federal government. In addition, some of the states in which we operate periodically consider various health care reform proposals. We anticipate that federal and state government bodies will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies and public debate of these issues will continue in the future. Due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, we cannot predict, which, if any, of such reform proposals will be adopted or when they may be adopted or that any such reforms will not have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, profitability and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Health care is an area of extensive and dynamic regulatory change. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a dramatic effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. Corporate Integrity Agreement Our predecessor, Rotech Medical Corporation, and the Office of Inspector General of the DHHS entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement as part of the process of settling the United States federal government’s fraud claims against Rotech Medical Corporation in its bankruptcy proceeding. As the successor to the business and operations of Rotech Medical Corporation, we are subject to the provisions of the Corporate Integrity Agreement. Providers and suppliers enter into corporate integrity agreements as part of settlements with the federal government in order that the federal government will waive its right to permissively exclude them from participating in federal health care programs. The Corporate Integrity Agreement is for a term of five years beginning February 2002. Among other things, the Corporate Integrity Agreement requires us to conduct internal claims reviews related to our Medicare billing. In the first year of the agreement, the internal claims reviews were also reviewed by an Independent Review Organization (“IRO”). Similarly, in the fourth year of the agreement, the internal claims reviews will also be reviewed by an IRO. Under certain circumstances, the internal claims reviews may also be reviewed by the IRO in the fifth year of the agreement. KPMG LLP has acted as our IRO. We must file reports of the reviews with the Office of Inspector General of the DHHS. In addition, the Corporate Integrity Agreement imposes upon us (including in most instances our officers, directors, employees and others) various training requirements, as well as the need to have certain policies and procedures in place. It also requires that we have a Compliance Officer, several “Compliance Liaisons” and a Compliance Committee. We believe we are in compliance with these requirements. The Corporate Integrity Agreement also mandates that we have certain procedures in place with respect to our acquisition process. More specifically, we are required to have an Acquisition Committee (which is comprised of members of senior management) which approves all acquisitions before they are consummated. As part of the acquisition process, we are required to conduct operational and file reviews of potential entities in which we might acquire an interest. Assuming that we decide to acquire an entity, we are required to provide a report to the Office of Inspector General of the DHHS indicating that we followed the acquisition procedures set forth in the Corporate Integrity Agreement and specifying any corrective action that might be necessary post acquisition. The Corporate Integrity Agreement restricts us from hiring any person or contractor who is ineligible to participate in federal health care programs, federal procurement or federal non-procurement programs or has been convicted of a criminal offense related to the provision of health care items or services. We are obligated to conduct ongoing reviews of the qualifications of all of our employees and contractors. If a current employee or contractor is or becomes an ineligible employee as contemplated by the Corporate Integrity Agreement, such individual must be relieved of any responsibility for, and removed from any involvement with, our business operations relating to federal health care programs. As part of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we also have certain obligations with respect to repayment of identified overpayments and reporting of “Material Deficiencies” we may learn of with respect to our relationship with federal health care programs. We also must submit annual reports to the Office of Inspector General of the DHHS regarding our compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement generally. To the extent that we violate the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we may be subject to substantial penalties, including stipulated cash penalties ranging from $1,000 per day to $2,500 per day for each day we are in breach of the agreement and, possibly, exclusion from federal health care programs. 16 Table of Contents Suppliers We purchase our supplies from a variety of independent suppliers. We are not dependent upon any one supplier, and believe that our supplies can be provided by several suppliers. We have long-standing relationships with most of our largest national suppliers in each product category. We typically focus on one or two suppliers in each product category in an effort to maximize delivery efficiency and gross margins. Sales We believe that the sales and marketing skills of our employees are instrumental to the success of our business. We provide marketing, training, product and service information to all of our technical personnel through our intranet and through seminars conducted on a company-wide basis so that they can communicate effectively with physicians about our equipment and services. We emphasize the cross-marketing of all our equipment and services to physicians with which we have already developed professional relationships. Quality Control We are committed to providing consistently high quality equipment and services. Our quality control procedures and training programs are designed to promote greater responsiveness and sensitivity to individual patient needs and to provide a high level of quality assurance and convenience to the patient and the referring physician. Licensed respiratory therapists and registered nurses provide professional health care support. The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, or JCAHO, is a nationally recognized organization which develops standards for various health care industry segments and monitors compliance with those standards through voluntary surveys of participating providers. Accreditation by JCAHO entails a lengthy review process that is conducted at least every three years. We believe that our accreditation by JCAHO is indicative of our commitment to providing consistently high quality equipment and services. Currently, approximately 97.5% of our operating centers are accredited by JCAHO. The only entities not accredited are newly acquired entities. Competition The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers, but most of which are either regional or local providers. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. The rest of the market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as numerous small (under $5 million in revenues) local operations. We also face competition from other types of health care providers, including hospitals, home health agencies and health maintenance organizations. We believe that the most important competitive factors in the regional and local markets are: • reputation with referral sources, including local physicians and hospital-based professionals; • service quality and responsiveness; • overall ease of doing business; • quality of patient care, including clinical expertise; • range of home medical equipment and services; and • being a low cost provider. We believe that it is important to be able to offer a broad range of complementary equipment and services to provide patients access through a single source. We believe that we compete effectively with respect to all of the above factors and that we have an established record as a quality provider of a range of complementary home medical equipment and services. 17 Table of Contents Insurance Our business is subject to general and professional liability, products liability, employment practices liability, workers’ compensation, automobile liability, personal injury and other liability claims that are generally covered by insurance. We have insurance policies that contain various customary levels of deductibles and self- insured retentions and provide us with protection against claims alleging bodily injury or property damage arising out of our operations. These insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. We believe that our insurance coverage is appropriate based upon historical claims and the nature and risks of our business. Employees Currently, we have approximately 4,662 full time employees. Our employees are not currently represented by a labor union or other labor organization. We believe our relations with our employees are good. Principal Executive Office and Website Access to Information Our principal executive offices are located at 2600 Technology Drive, Suite 300, Orlando, Florida, 32804 and our telephone number there is (407) 822-4600. Our internet website address is www.rotech.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents: • Certificate of Incorporation • Bylaws • Audit Committee Charter • Compensation Committee Charter • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter • Corporate Governance Guidelines • Code of Ethics for Directors, Senior Executive, Financial and Accounting Officers • Policy Statement on Business Ethics and Conflicts of Interests All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge, upon written request directed to the Chief Legal Officer, Rotech Healthcare Inc., 2600 Technology Drive, Suite 300, Orlando, Florida, 32804. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report and is not a part of this annual report. Executive Officers Our executive officers and their respective ages and positions are as follows: Name Age Position Philip L. Carter 57 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Michael R. Dobbs 56 Chief Operating Officer Barry E. Stewart 51 Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 18 Table of Contents Philip L. Carter became President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of our company in December 2002. From March 2002 to November 2002, Mr. Carter was self-employed. From May 1998 to February 2002, Mr. Carter was the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Apria Healthcare Group Inc. Prior to joining Apria Healthcare Group Inc., Mr. Carter had served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Mac Frugal’s Bargains Close-Outs Inc., a chain of retail discount stores, since 1995. Michael R. Dobbs became Chief Operating Officer of our company in January 2003. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Dobbs was an officer of Apria Healthcare Group Inc., serving as Executive Vice President, Logistics from January 1999 to January 2003 and as Senior Vice President, Logistics from June 1998 to January 1999. Prior to joining Apria Healthcare Group Inc., Mr. Dobbs served as Senior Vice President of Distribution for Mac Frugal’s Bargains Close-Outs Inc. from 1991 to 1998. Barry E. Stewart, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, joined us in July 2004. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Stewart was Chief Financial Officer of Evolved Digital Systems, Inc. from 2001 to 2004, and Vice President of Finance of Community Health Systems, Inc. from 1996 to 2001. Prior to 1996, Mr. Stewart served in various managing director positions with national commercial banks. Mr. Stewart currently serves as a director and the chairman of the audit committee of the board of directors for FloTek Industries, Inc., a publicly traded company headquartered in Houston, Texas. Mr. Stewart is a licensed Certified Public Accountant. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Health care is an area of extensive and dynamic regulatory change that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. These and other risks discussed in this report could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. A substantial percentage of our revenue is attributable to Medicare. Our business may be significantly impacted by changes in Medicare reimbursement policies and recent legislative changes aimed at reducing health care costs. A substantial percentage of our revenue is attributable to Medicare and, to a lesser extent, Medicaid. The remainder of our billings are paid by other third-party payors, including private insurers, and by the patients themselves. Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs (primarily Veterans Administration contracts) accounted for approximately 71.1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003, approximately 71.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 and approximately 66.7% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products and services profitably. In the United States, federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing significant changes in the healthcare system. News headlines continue to highlight the need to control health care spending in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and this pressure may continue to intensify over time. Legislation continues to impact and reduce Medicare payment levels. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, additional reductions have been imposed. Changes under MMA include a reduction in payments for certain types of home medical equipment, including wheelchairs, nebulizers and oxygen equipment, a freeze in payments for certain home medical equipment from 2004 through 2008, competitive bidding requirements, new clinical conditions for payment and quality standards. In addition, as of January 1, 2005, MMA also reduced payments for inhalation drugs delivered through nebulizer equipment to an amount based on 106% of average sales price. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement for oxygen, nebulizers and inhalation medications could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact that any federal legislation enacted in the future will have on our revenues and profitability. 19 Table of Contents Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws can have a dramatic effect on permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. Reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs is subject to federal and state statutory and regulatory requirements, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy, implementation of reimbursement procedures, renewal of Veterans Administration contracts, retroactive payment adjustments and governmental funding restrictions. Our levels of revenue and profitability, like those of other health care companies, are affected by the continuing efforts of government payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates. A substantial percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered HME items, including oxygen, and laws and policies currently in effect reduce payment amounts for certain categories of HME, including those of many of our products. Currently, Medicare payments to us for our HME products are based on the lesser of the actual charge for the item or the applicable Medicare fee schedule amount. Under MMA, from 2004 through 2008, most payments for HME are set at the 2003 level and, therefore, are “frozen,” unless the item becomes subject to further reductions based on Federal Employee Health Benefits Program median payment amounts (as described below), or is subject to competitive bidding. As of January 1, 2005, the fee schedule amounts for certain items of HME, including wheelchairs and nebulizers, were reduced based on the percentage difference between the amount of payment otherwise determined for 2002 and the median amount of payment under the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, as determined by the Office of Inspector General of DHHS, or OIG. The FEHBP adjusted payments are to remain “frozen” through 2008 unless the particular item becomes subject to competitive bidding. The fee schedule amounts for oxygen and oxygen equipment were also to be reduced based on this calculation as of January 1, 2005. Because of a delay in publication of the data needed to set these amounts, the oxygen fee schedule amounts were not reduced until the end of March 2005. According to a March 2005 OIG report, in 2002 FEHBP median payments were approximately 12.4% less than Medicare payments for stationary home oxygen equipment and approximately 10.8% less than Medicare payments for portable home oxygen equipment. The March 2005 report superseded an earlier September 2004 OIG report that had found greater differences between FEHBP and Medicare payment rates. On the same day that the OIG published its final 2005 report, CMS published 2005 payment amounts for home oxygen equipment, which were calculated using the information in the March 2005 OIG report, and instructed the carriers to implement the payment amounts no later than April 8, 2005. Due to the delay in publication of the finalized OIG report, CMS provided that Medicare claims for oxygen equipment furnished on or after January 1, 2005 which were submitted prior to the effective date are to be paid based on 2004 monthly payment amounts. Medicare claims submitted on or after the effective date are to be paid according to the 2005 payment amounts. No retroactive adjustments are to be made to those claims submitted prior to implementation of the 2005 payment amounts. The non-oxygen HME items subject to the Medicare price cuts accounted for approximately 3.7% of our recorded revenues in 2005. Furthermore, the reductions in the Medicare fee schedules for home oxygen equipment (as set forth in the March 2005 OIG report discussed above) together with the additional reimbursement reductions mandated by the MMA in 2005 for other home medical equipment (excluding inhalation drugs) resulted in an aggregate reduction in our 2005 recorded revenues in the amount of approximately $17.7 million. We cannot predict the outcome of any future rulemaking by CMS. Any additional reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for home oxygen equipment could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. In addition, DRA changes the way Medicare Part B pays for our HME products, including capped rental items and oxygen equipment. For capped rental items, including hospital beds, nebulizers and power wheelchairs, Medicare has in the past paid a monthly rental fee for a period not to exceed 15 months of continuous use. Under the DRA, the maximum number of months for which Medicare is to make payment for such equipment decreased from 15 months to 13 months of continuous use, after which time ownership is 20 Table of Contents automatically transferred to the beneficiary. This provision is effective for items furnished for which the first rental month is during or after January 2006. As to power wheelchairs, the DRA preserves an existing provision requiring that beneficiaries be given the option to purchase the power wheelchair at the time it is furnished. For oxygen equipment, prior to the DRA, Medicare made monthly rental payments indefinitely, provided medical need continued. The DRA capped the Medicare rental period for oxygen equipment at 36 months of continuous use, after which time ownership of the equipment transfers to the beneficiary. For purposes of this cap, the DRA provides for a new 36 month rental period beginning January 1, 2006 for all oxygen equipment. This new 36 month rental period applies for beneficiaries starting to use the equipment as well as for those who have been using it prior to 2006. In addition to the changes in the duration of the rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment, the DRA authorizes payments for servicing and maintenance of the products after ownership transfers to the beneficiary if the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services determines the servicing and maintenance is reasonable and necessary. Prior to the changes by the DRA to the duration of the capped rental period and the new transfer of ownership requirement, Medicare payment for the capped rental items was made automatically every six months for servicing and maintenance for those products for which a Medicare supplier retained ownership after the capped rental period ended. We do not expect the changes in rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment to have a material impact on our business in 2006. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that the changes in rental period for capped rental items and oxygen equipment will have on our financial condition or results of operations in future years. A significant percentage of our business is derived from the sale of Medicare-covered respiratory medications, and laws and policies currently in effect impose significant reductions in Medicare reimbursement for such inhalation drugs. MMA also revises the payment methodology for certain drugs, including inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. Prior to MMA, Medicare paid for these drugs based on average wholesale price, or AWP, as reported by drug manufacturers. Beginning January 1, 2004, Medicare payments were reduced for most of our Part B inhalation drugs to 80% of AWP from 95% of AWP, a reduction of approximately 15 basis points. As of January 1, 2005, as required by MMA, payment amounts for most drugs are based on the average sales price, or ASP. These reductions in Medicare payment rates for inhalation drugs reduced our net revenues by approximately $10 million in 2004 and approximately $39 million in 2005. The reduction in 2005 was partially offset by shifts in patient and product mix. Beginning in 2006, MMA requires that payment amounts for most drugs are to be based on either ASP or competitive bidding for drugs administered by physicians. On June 27, 2005, CMS issued an interim final rule on the Part B competitive bidding program for outpatient drugs and biologicals, or CAP. On November 21, 2005, CMS issued a final rule on CAP. CAP is to begin on July 1, 2006. Inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers are not to be included in the initial phase of the CAP. This means that 2006 payment amounts for inhalation drugs administered by physicians are to be determined based upon ASP. ASP is defined statutorily as the volume weighted average of manufacturers’ average sales prices, calculated by adding the manufacturers’ average sales prices for the drug in the fiscal quarter to the number of units sold and then divided by the total number of units sold for all national drug codes assigned to the product. Under the ASP methodology, Medicare generally will pay 106% of ASP for multiple source drugs and 106% of the lesser of ASP or wholesale acquisition cost for single source drugs. In addition, for 2006, if the ASP exceeds the widely available market price by more than 5%, CMS may substitute the widely available market price for the ASP. ASP payment rates are calculated using the most recent manufacturer data available. Manufacturer ASP data submissions are due to CMS not later than 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter. Quarterly updates are to be implemented to reflect these quarterly submissions by manufacturers. For example, second quarter 2005 data was used to calculate the ASP payment amounts for the fourth quarter of 2005. ASP payment amounts for our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For each of the quarters of 2005, as well as the first quarter of 2006, the ASP payment amounts for many drugs, including two prevalent inhalation drugs, albuterol sulfate and ipratropium bromide, are significantly less than the payment amounts for these drugs in 2004. The payment rate, as posted by CMS, for albuterol sulfate was reduced from $0.39 per milligram in 2004 21 Table of Contents to $0.064 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and continued to slightly decline in the first quarter of 2006, to $0.060. The payment rate, as posted by CMS, for ipratropium bromide was reduced from $2.82 per milligram in 2004 to $0.165 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and increased slightly in the first quarter of 2006, to $0.227. Effective January 1, 2006, CMS established a new billing code for compounded budesonide, which includes compounded inhalation medications that we provide to Medicare beneficiaries based on a physician’s prescription. Medicare payment for compounded budesonide, beginning January 1, 2006, is based on pharmacy invoices submitted for individual claims. If the resulting payment rates using the invoice methodology are significantly less than the 2005 ASP payment rates, this payment reduction could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Given the overall reduction in payment for inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers, for 2005, CMS established a $57 dispensing fee for inhalation drugs shipped to a beneficiary for a 30-day period or $80 for a 90-day period. In calculating these 2005 dispensing fees, CMS took into account data submitted by members of the public, including a report commissioned by the American Association for Homecare, or AAHomecare, as well as an October 2004 report by the United States Government Accountability Office, or GAO, regarding inhalation drugs dispensed through nebulizers. The GAO recommended that CMS evaluate the costs of dispensing inhalation therapy drugs and modify the existing dispensing fee, if warranted, to ensure that it reflects the costs necessary for dispensation of inhalation therapy drugs. On November 2, 2005, CMS issued the 2006 physician fee schedule final rule, in which the agency reduced the dispensing fee for inhalation drugs furnished to beneficiaries. For 2006, the dispensing fee is $57 for the first 30-day period in which a Medicare beneficiary uses inhalation drugs and $33 for inhalation drugs dispensed for each subsequent 30-day period. For a 90-day supply of inhalation drugs, the dispensing fee is $66. We believe that the reductions in the 2006 Medicare dispensing fees will result in a reduction in our 2006 projected revenue of approximately $15 million. We cannot predict the impact that any future rulemaking by CMS might have on our business. If the dispensing fees are reduced or eliminated in 2007 or beyond, this could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, Medicare-reimbursed inhalation drug therapies provided by us accounted for approximately 18.2% of our recorded revenues. The 2005 dispensing fees offset to some extent the reductions in payment rates for inhalation drugs established under the ASP methodology. While we were able, based upon the increased dispensing fees, to continue to offer inhalation drugs to Medicare patients in 2005, the reductions in dispensing fees for 2006, along with the pricing changes resulting from the ASP payment rates are resulting in a further material reduction in the revenues and profitability of our inhalation drug business and we cannot predict whether it will continue to be economically feasible for us to provide inhalation drugs in the future. Federal law establishing a competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition. In 1999-2001, CMS conducted competitive bidding demonstrations for certain Medicare services. Under MMA, starting in 2007, Medicare is scheduled to begin a nationwide competitive bidding program in ten high-population metropolitan statistical areas (“MSAs”) for certain high cost and high utilization items. The program is to expand to cover 80 MSAs in 2009 and additional areas thereafter. Competitive bidding will require suppliers to compete for the rights to provide items to beneficiaries in a defined region. Only a limited number of suppliers will be selected in any given MSA, resulting in restricted supplier choices for beneficiaries. Competitive bidding may result in lower reimbursement or the loss of our ability to provide services in certain regions. MMA permits certain exemptions from competitive bidding, including exemptions for rural areas and areas with low population density within urban areas that are not competitive, unless there is a significant national market through mail-order for the particular item. A large number of our facilities are located in such areas. However, the criteria for how the exemption will be applied have not yet been determined and CMS has not yet published the proposed regulations regarding the implementation of competitive bidding. Accordingly, the impact on our business remains uncertain. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory changes subject the Medicare reimbursement rates for our equipment and services to potential discretionary adjustment by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997, or BBA 97, granted authority to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, or DHHS, to increase or reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment, including oxygen, by 15% each year under an inherent reasonableness procedure. On February 11, 2003, CMS made effective an interim final rule implementing the inherent reasonableness authority, which allows the agency and carriers to adjust payment amounts by up to 15% per year for certain items and services covered by Part B when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used by CMS and the carriers to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or deficient and to determine what is a realistic and equitable payment amount. Also, under the regulation, CMS and the carriers will not consider a payment amount to be grossly excessive or deficient and make an adjustment if they determine that an overall payment adjustment of less than 15% is necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. On December 13, 2005, CMS published a final rule implementing the inherent reasonableness authority, which became effective on February 11, 2006. This final rule establishes regulatory criteria that are substantially the same as those put in place under the earlier interim final rule. In addition to its inherent reasonableness authority, CMS has the discretion to reduce the reimbursement for home medical equipment and other non-HME services to an amount based on the payment amount for the least costly alternative treatment that meets the Medicare beneficiary’s medical needs. Least costly alternative, or LCA, determinations are applied to particular products and services by CMS and its carriers through the informal notice and comment process used in establishing local coverage policies for HME. This process need not be followed for LCA determinations made on individual claims. Using either its inherent reasonableness or least costly alternative authority, CMS and the carriers may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services covered by Part B, including products and services we offer, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. Future reductions in reimbursement rates under Medicaid could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for some or all of our equipment and services, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our equipment and services which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and results of operations. In addition to cost containment initiatives associated with Medicare and Medicaid, we are affected by continuing efforts by private third-party payors to control their costs. If we lower our prices due to pricing pressures from private third-party payors, our results of operations and financial condition would likely deteriorate. Private payors continually seek to control the cost of providing health care services through direct contracts with health care providers, increased oversight and greater enrollment of patients in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These private payors are increasingly demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by the health care provider of all or a portion of the financial risk. Reimbursement payments under private payor programs may not remain at current levels and may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs, and we may suffer deterioration in pricing flexibility, changes in payor mix and growth in operating expenses in excess of increases in payments by private third-party payors. We may be compelled to lower our prices due to increased pricing pressures, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to deteriorate. 23 Table of Contents Failure to maintain current levels of collectibility of our accounts receivable would likely have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flow. Billing and collection for our services is a complex process requiring constant attention and involvement by senior management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. We are paid for our services by various payors, including patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and others, each with distinct billing requirements. We recognize revenue when we provide services to patients. However, our ability to collect these receivables is dependent on our submissions to payors of accurate and complete documentation. In order for us to bill and receive payment for our services, the physician and the patient must provide appropriate billing information. Following up on incorrect or missing information generally slows down the billing process and the collection of accounts receivable. Failure to meet the billing requirements of the different payors could result in a decline of our revenues, profitability and cash flow. We may experience significant delays in obtaining Medicare provider numbers which may result in delayed billings and could have a negative impact on accounts receivable collection and cash flows. Further, even if our billing procedures comply with all third-party payor requirements, some of our payors may experience financial difficulties or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, which would result in increased write-offs or provisions for doubtful accounts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current levels of collectibility or that third-party payors will not experience financial difficulties. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, our revenues, profitability and cash flow likely will decline. In addition, in connection with our consolidation of billing centers, we have experienced in the past short-term disruptions in our operations and collection efforts. If we experience such disruptions in the future, our revenues, profitability and cash flow may significantly decline. We are subject to periodic audits by governmental and private payors. We are subject to periodic audits by Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the oversight agencies for these programs have rights and remedies they can assert against us if they determine we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These agencies could seek to require us to repay any overcharges or amounts billed in violation of program requirements, or could make deductions from future amounts otherwise due to us from these programs. We could also be subject to fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Private payors also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments. See “Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of recent efforts by government payors to reduce health care costs. Our business, including our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid program, is subject to extensive laws and government regulations. Failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to severe sanctions and have a significant negative impact on our operations. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, including: • billing practices including substantiation and record keeping requirements; • prohibitions on fraud and abuse, kickbacks, rebates and fee splitting; • licensing and certification requirements; • confidentiality, privacy and security issues in connection with medical records and patient information; • relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • operating policies and procedures; 24 Table of Contents • qualifications of health care and support personnel; • quality of durable medical equipment and other medical equipment; • handling, distribution and disposal of pharmaceutical products and medical waste; • quality assurance; and • occupational safety. Existing United States laws governing Medicare and state health care programs such as Medicaid, as well as similar laws enacted in many states, impose a broad variety of prohibitions on soliciting, receiving, offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any form of remuneration, payment or benefit for the referral of a patient for services or products reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program. The federal government has published regulations that provide exceptions or “safe harbors” for business transactions that will be deemed not to violate these prohibitions. Violation of these prohibitions may result in civil and criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare and state health care programs. The federal and state “Stark Laws” impose a broad range of restrictions upon referring physicians (and their immediate family) and providers of certain designated health services under Medicare and state health care programs, including restrictions on financial relationships between the referring physicians and the providers of the designated health care services. Services which we provide are classified as designated health services and fall within the regulatory scope of the Stark Laws. Significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties may be imposed for violation of these laws. We are also subject to strict licensing and safety requirements by the federal government and many states. Furthermore, many state laws prohibit physicians from sharing professional fees with non-physicians and prohibit non-physician entities, such as us, from practicing medicine and from employing physicians to practice medicine. In addition, both federal and state government agencies have heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, as well as their executives and managers. These investigations relate to a wide variety of matters, including referral and billing practices. Further, amendments to the False Claims Act have made it easier for private parties to bring “qui tam” whistleblower lawsuits against companies. Some states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions. The Office of the Inspector General of the DHHS and the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, have, from time to time, established national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. Some of our activities could become the subject of governmental investigations or inquiries. In 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the DHHS to settle claims against Rotech Medical Corporation relating to certain Medicare and Medicaid billings. In addition, we or our executives could be included in other governmental investigations or named as defendants in private litigation, resulting in adverse publicity against us. On April 30, 2003, federal agents served search warrants at our corporate headquarters and four other facilities in three states and were provided access to a number of current and historical financial records and other materials. Since that time, we have received subpoenas on behalf of the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of Illinois relating to the same subject matter including information relating to Medicare billing and Department of Veterans Affairs contracting. We are cooperating fully with the investigation. However, we can give no assurances as to the duration of the investigation or as to whether or not the government will institute proceedings against us or any of our employees or as to the violations that may be asserted. 25 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations relevant to our business, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties, demands from the government for refunds or recoupment of amounts previously paid to us by the government, facility shutdowns and possible exclusion from participation in federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Some statutory and regulatory provisions, principally in the area of billing, have not been interpreted by the courts and may be interpreted or applied in a manner that might adversely affect us. Changes in health care laws or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on our business and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. For example, material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting were identified during management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as described in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2004. These material weaknesses resulted in a more than remote risk that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. We have devoted significant resources to remediate our deficiencies and improve our internal control over financial reporting and based upon management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting and addressed the concerns that gave rise to the material weaknesses reported as of December 31, 2004, we are continuing to work to improve our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors have continued to consolidate in order to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to build volume that justifies discounted prices. Consequently, the health care needs of a large percentage of the United States population are now provided by a small number of managed care organizations and third-party payors. These organizations, including the Veterans Administration, generally enter into service agreements with a limited number of providers for needed services. To the extent such organizations terminate agreements with us and/or engage our competitors, our business could 26 Table of Contents be materially adversely affected. If we lose relationships with managed care organizations and other third-party payors, including the Veterans Administration, we could lose access to patients and our revenue would likely decline. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relations with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees, and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, our revenues may decline. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state authorities and there can be no assurance that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with such regulations. Our medical gas facilities and operations are subject to extensive regulation by FDA and other federal and state authorities. The FDA regulates medical gases, including medical oxygen, pursuant to its authority under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). Among other requirements, FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations impose certain quality control, documentation and recordkeeping requirements on the receipt, processing and distribution of medical gas. The FDA and state authorities conduct periodic, unannounced inspections at medical gas facilities to assess compliance with the cGMP and other regulations. We currently have approximately 155 medical gas facilities subject to federal and state regulatory requirements. In September 2005, FDA inspected our medical gas facility in Coeur D’Alene, Idaho and noted two inspectional observations which required corrective action. We promptly responded in writing to the FDA identifying the actions we took to correct the deficiencies identified by the FDA during the inspection. In addition, following the inspection we conducted a general review of the compliance status of our medical gas facilities with the cGMP regulations and we are currently revising and updating our practices and procedures for medical gas receipt, processing and distribution, and are enhancing our audit and training functions in connection with the results of such review. Accordingly, we are currently expending significant time, money and resources in an effort to achieve substantial compliance with the cGMP regulations at each of our medical gas facilities. However, there can be no assurance that this effort will be successful and that our medical gas facilities will achieve and maintain compliance with the cGMP regulations. Further, our medical gas facilities are subject to state regulation under health and safety laws that vary from state to state. As a result, our medical gas facilities are periodically inspected by state authorities, and we therefore must expend resources in identifying and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our medical gas operations in each state in which we do business. Our failure to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance at our medical gas facilities could result in enforcement action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, temporary or permanent injunctions, and civil or criminal penalties which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our pharmacy locations and operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal authorities and there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with such regulations. Under state law, our pharmacy locations must be licensed as in-state pharmacies to dispense pharmaceuticals in the relevant state of location. We deliver pharmaceuticals from our pharmacy location in Kentucky to customers in 47 states, and, where required by state pharmacy law, we must obtain and maintain licenses from each state to which we deliver such pharmaceuticals. We are therefore subject to state boards of pharmacy laws and regulations in nearly all jurisdictions where we do business. These laws can vary significantly from state to state and, while we continuously monitor state activities and changes in the law, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with all laws and regulations that may apply to our pharmacy operations in particular jurisdictions. Many states enforce their pharmacy laws through periodic facility inspections. State authorities may also raise inquiries or complaints regarding our pharmacy practices in connection with the renewal of our license in a particular state or for other reasons. For instance, in January 2005, we received a 27 Table of Contents request from the Montana Department of Labor and Industry that we respond to a complaint filed by a third-party alleging that certain of our activities exceeded that scope of our pharmacy license in Montana. We have filed a response and continue to cooperate with Montana authorities as they review our pharmacy license and our activities in that state. In addition, in December 2005, the Texas Department of Public Health requested information regarding our mail order pharmacy practices. We have responded to this request and have not had further communications with Texas state authorities regarding this matter. Failure to comply with applicable state regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action, including fines, revocation, suspension or failure to renew our state pharmacy licenses, injunctions, seizures, and civil or criminal penalties. Our pharmacy compounding practices may be deemed by FDA to constitute drug manufacturing, which would subject these practices to regulation by FDA which could temporarily or permanently suspend part or all of our compounding operations. Some of the pharmacists at our Pulmo-Dose pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky dispense compounded preparations of drug products that are not commercially available, based upon a patient’s individual need and at a physician’s specific request. Pharmacy compounding, or the preparation of a dosage, combination or variation of a drug that has not been approved by FDA, is considered to be within the practice of pharmacy and is regulated primarily under state law. However, some of the activities that we consider to be compounding may be viewed by the FDA as the manufacture of a new drug product, which would subject such activities to rigorous regulation by FDA under the FFDCA. The line between the activities that constitute drug compounding and the activities that constitute drug manufacturing is not clear, and the FDA may define the scope of drug manufacturing activities more broadly than we or the state pharmacy board do. In recent years, FDA has increased its scrutiny of pharmacy compounding activities, and has issued several warning letters citing pharmacies for violations of the FFDCA based, in part, on volumes and types of compounded pharmaceutical products. On August 1, 2005, FDA initiated an inspection of our compounding pharmacy in Murray, Kentucky. The FDA completed its audit on August 12, 2005 and noted three inspectional observations. The Company promptly submitted a response to the FDA and continues to engage in ongoing communications with the FDA regarding the inspection and FDA’s continuing review of our pharmacy’s activities. Although the FDA did not conclude that the activities at our Murray, Kentucky pharmacy constitute drug manufacturing, there is no assurance that FDA will ultimately agree that we are not a drug manufacturer and that our operations are in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements. If the FDA determines that our compounding activities are more consistent with the activities of a drug manufacturer, the FDA could exercise its enforcement authority to temporarily or permanently suspend part or all of our compounding operations, seize part or all of our compounding raw materials and compounded products, or require us to comply with the FFDCA’s rigorous requirements for manufacturing and marketing a new drug. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the FDA inspection will have on our business. If we do not comply with laws and regulations governing the confidentiality of medical information, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. In 1996, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was enacted, among other things, to establish uniform standards governing the conduct of certain electronic health care transactions and to protect the security and privacy of individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted by health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses. Three standards have been promulgated under HIPAA with which we currently are required to comply. We must comply with the Standards for Electronic Transactions, which establish standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information and the use of electronic signatures; unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals; security; privacy; and enforcement. We were required to comply with these Standards by October 16, 2003. We also must comply with the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Information, which restricts our use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information. We were required to comply with the Privacy Standards by April 14, 2003. In addition, the Security Standards required us to implement certain security measures to safeguard certain electronic health information by April 20, 2005. We believe we are in compliance in all 28 Table of Contents material respects with these HIPAA standards. One other standard relevant to our use of medical information has been promulgated under HIPAA, although our compliance with this standard is not yet required. CMS published a final rule, which will require us to adopt a Unique Health Identifiers for use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions by May 23, 2007. While the government intended this legislation to reduce administrative expenses and burdens for the health care industry, our compliance with this law may entail significant and costly changes for us. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions. Lack of accreditation of our operating centers or failure to meet government standards for coverage could result in a decline in our revenues. Currently, approximately 97.5% of our operating centers are accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, or JCAHO. The only entities not accredited are newly acquired entities. If future reviews by JCAHO do not result in continued accreditation of our operating centers, we would likely experience a decline in our revenues. Further, under MMA, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for home medical equipment and certain supplies and has a supplier number for submission of claims will be subject to new quality standards as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. These new standards, which have not yet been implemented, are being developed by CMS and are to be applied by independent accreditation organizations. On September 23, 2005, CMS released draft quality standards for comment, which are expected to be finalized and published in spring of 2006. The draft standards consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management requirements applicable to all HME suppliers, and product-specific quality standards, which focus on product specialization and service standards. The proposed product-specific standards address several of our products, including oxygen and oxygen equipment, CPAP and BiPAP, hospital beds, support surfaces, power and manual wheelchairs, and other mobility equipment. CMS announced that it intends to introduce additional product-specific quality standards for other products in the future, and this could include standards that impact us. MMA also authorizes CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for home medical equipment. These new supplier standards and clinical conditions for payment could limit or reduce the number of individuals who can sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. In addition, because we have Medicare supplier numbers and are subject to any new supplier standards, our failure to meet any new supplier standards could affect our ability to bill and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that the clinical conditions or final quality standards will have on our business. If we fail to comply with our Corporate Integrity Agreement or the terms of our settlement with the federal government, we could be subject to severe sanctions and be excluded from participating in federal and state health care programs, as well as adverse publicity, which could result in a material decrease in our revenue and seriously undermine our ability to compete for business, negotiate acquisitions, hire new personnel and otherwise conduct our business. On February 11, 2002, our predecessor entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the DHHS. We have assumed the obligations under this agreement (and the settlement with the federal government). Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, we are obligated to implement procedures designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal health care programs. The Corporate Integrity Agreement is effective for five years. Among other things, the Corporate Integrity Agreement requires us to conduct internal claims reviews relating to our Medicare billing. In the first year of the agreement, the internal claims reviews were also reviewed by an Independent Review Organization. Similarly, in the fourth year of the agreement, the internal claims reviews must also be reviewed by an Independent Review Organization (currently KPMG LLP). We must file reports of the reviews with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. As a result of these reviews we may be required to refund certain payments to the federal government and/or be subject to penalties resulting from such overpayments. In addition, failure by us to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement could subject us to substantial monetary penalties, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, as well as adverse publicity, which could seriously undermine our ability to compete for business, negotiate acquisitions, hire new personnel and otherwise conduct our 29 Table of Contents business, and could result in a deterioration in our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Corporate Integrity Agreement” for a more detailed description of the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement. In June 2002, we uncovered a pattern of falsified bulk sales of equipment to the Department of Veterans Affairs, as well as certain improperly recorded revenues from non-bulk VA service contracts. In late June 2002, we discovered that an independent contractor (who was also a former employee) had falsified certain bulk sales to the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”) by fabricating documentation for nonexistent sales of medical equipment in bulk to the VA. Upon learning of these falsified sales, we promptly conducted a comprehensive internal investigation. The investigation confirmed the existence of a pattern of falsified bulk sales of equipment to the VA, as well as certain improperly recorded revenues from non-bulk VA service contracts. The total of the falsified sales was originally recorded to our books and records as net revenue of $30.4 million. Of this amount, $14.8 million was recorded during the six-month period from October 1, 2001 to March 31, 2002. In addition, $8.1 million of receivables associated with non-bulk VA service contracts were reversed. In connection with the investigation, we recovered approximately $12.5 million of medical equipment inventory, virtually all of which was in resalable condition. Although we have concluded our investigation, it is possible that our investigation did not uncover every instance of fraudulent activity. In addition, we received informal requests for information on March 7, 2003 and on April 17, 2003, from the Division of Enforcement of the Securities and Exchange Commission related to our internal investigation regarding VA contracts, and provided documents in response to such requests. At this time we have not received any further requests for information from the Securities and Exchange Commission, however, we can give no assurances as to whether or not the Securities and Exchange Commission will request additional information or take any other action. As a result of the investigation, during 2002, we restated our consolidated financial statements for each of the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000 and 2001 and for the three months ended March 31, 2002. The restatement reflected a net after-tax charge of $14.1 million over a three-year period. We experience competition from numerous other home medical equipment providers, and this competition could result in a deterioration in our revenues and business. The home medical equipment market is highly competitive and divided among a large number of providers, some of which are national providers but most of which are either regional or local providers. Home respiratory companies compete primarily on the basis of service rather than price since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid or by the individual determinations of private health plans. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our referrals of new customers are highly dependent upon our reputation within each local health care market for providing responsive, professional and high-quality service, a professional staff with clinical and technical expertise and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have greater financial or marketing resources than we do. Our largest national home medical equipment provider competitors are Apria Healthcare Group, Inc., Lincare Holdings, Inc., American Home Patient, Inc., Praxair, Inc. and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. The rest of the market consists of several medium-size competitors, as well as hundreds of smaller companies with under $5 million in revenues. Many of the smaller, owner-operated home medical equipment providers may have a higher level of service quality that is difficult to replicate. There are relatively few barriers to entry in local home health care markets. The competitive nature of the home medical equipment environment could result in a deterioration in our revenues and our business. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of March 1, 2006, our total consolidated long-term debt (including current maturities) accounted for approximately 37% of our total capitalization. 30 Table of Contents The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, because: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our 9 1/2% senior subordinated notes due 2012; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; • it may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general; and • we are vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including any credit facilities and the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our business and growth strategies will require additional capital, which we may not be able to raise on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures relating to the purchase and maintenance of the medical equipment used in our business. In the year ended December 31, 2005, our capital expenditures were approximately $78.8 million, representing 14.8% of our net revenues. In addition, we may pursue our growth strategy in part through acquisitions (as competitive and pricing pressures encourage consolidation and economies of scale) and the start-up of new locations. We may need to incur additional indebtedness and/or sell equity securities, from time to time, to fund such capital expenditures. Sufficient financing may not be available to us on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. In the event that we acquire companies, we may incur unknown liabilities for their past practices, we may be unable to successfully integrate such companies into our operations and our results of operations could deteriorate. If we acquire additional companies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate such companies successfully or manage our expanded operations effectively and profitably. The process of integrating newly acquired businesses may be costly and disruptive. Our operational, financial and management systems may be incompatible with or inadequate to cost-effectively integrate and manage the acquired systems. As a result, billing practices could be interrupted and cash collections on the newly acquired business could be delayed pending conversion of patient files onto our billing systems and receipt of appropriate licensures and provider numbers from government payors. The integration may place significant demands on our management, diverting their attention from our existing operations. If we are not successful in integrating acquired businesses, our results of operations would likely decline. We may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with health care laws and regulations. We have policies to conform the practices of acquired facilities to our 31 Table of Contents standards and applicable law and generally intend to seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters. We may, however, incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. If we do not enhance and maintain effective and efficient information systems, our operations may be disrupted and our anticipated operating efficiency may not be realized. Our operations are dependent on the enhancement and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to enhance and maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could disrupt our operations and prevent us from achieving operating efficiency. We are highly dependent on our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could result in a decline in our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer, Philip L. Carter, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Our future success is dependent on the ability of our managers and sales personnel to manage and promote our business, operations and growth. Any inability to manage our operations effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not able to hire qualified management and other personnel, or if costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver equipment and services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified management and other personnel. Our highest cost is in the payment of salaries to our approximately 4,662 full time employees. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees, which has caused increased salary and wage rates. If we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if the costs of compensation or employee benefits increase substantially, our ability to deliver services effectively could suffer and our profitability would likely decline. Increases in our costs could erode our profit margins and substantially reduce our net income and cash flows. Cost containment in the health care industry, fueled, in part, by federal and state government budgetary shortfalls, is likely to result in constant or decreasing reimbursement amounts for our equipment and services. As a result, we must control our operating cost levels, particularly labor and related costs. We compete with other health care providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel. We also compete with various industries for lower-wage administrative and service employees. Since reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation in labor and related cost components, if any, through increases in prices for our equipment and services. Consequently, such cost increases could erode our profit margins and reduce our net income. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of purchased operations. As of December 31, 2005, this goodwill was approximately $42.0 million. As a result of the implementation of “fresh-start” reporting during 2002, the assets and liabilities of Rotech Medical Corporation were revalued, which resulted in approximately $692.2 million for reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets—goodwill. As of December 31, 2005, the reorganization value in excess of fair value of identifiable assets—goodwill remains at a balance of approximately $692.2 million. Any future acquisitions by us will likely result in the recognition of additional intangible assets. 32 Table of Contents On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, the value of intangible assets may not be realized by us. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write-off the impaired portion of the unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. We may be subject to claims arising from investigations and legal proceedings, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. The nature of our business subjects us to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we are from time to time involved in other legal proceedings. In connection with its emergence from bankruptcy, claims made against our predecessor prior to the date it filed for bankruptcy protection were satisfied in accordance with the terms of its plan of reorganization or pursuant to settlement agreements approved by the Bankruptcy Court. However, although management believes that all pre-petition state claims have also been discharged or dealt with in the plan of reorganization, states in other bankruptcy cases have challenged whether, as a matter of law, their claims could be discharged in a federal bankruptcy proceeding if they never made an appearance in the case. The issue has not been finally settled by the United States Supreme Court. Therefore, there is no assurance that a court would find that emergence from bankruptcy would discharge all such state claims against us or our predecessor involving pre-petition claims. Any such claim not discharged could result in a decline in our financial condition and profitability. Since the date of confirmation of the plan of reorganization, we have not and our predecessor has not received any correspondence from a state challenging the pre-petition discharge of claims. A significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock are concentrated in a small number of stockholders which, acting together, could exercise significant influence over certain aspects of our business. As of March 1, 2006, our 7 largest stockholders held in the aggregate approximately 65% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. If the coverage limits on our insurance policies are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. Participants in the health care industry, including us, are subject to substantial claims and litigation in the ordinary course, often involving large claims and significant defense costs. As a result of the liability risks inherent in our lines of business we maintain liability insurance intended to cover such claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we have been advised by our insurance broker that our insurance premiums will be subject to increases in the future, which increases may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase, our financial condition and results of operations would likely decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 