Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We anticipate that our revenue and operating results will fluctuate, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our operating results have fluctuated and will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: • general economic conditions and level of IT spending; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our significant OEM suppliers or customers; • market acceptance, product mix and life of the products we assemble and distribute; • competitive conditions in our industry that impact our margins; • pricing, margin and other terms with our OEM suppliers; and • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of OEM supplier-sponsored programs, such as price protection and return rights. Although we attempt to control our expense levels, these levels are based, in part, on anticipated revenue. Therefore, we may not be able to control spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Our operating results also are affected by the seasonality of the IT products industry. We have historically experienced higher sales in our fourth fiscal quarter due to patterns in the capital budgeting, federal government spending and purchasing cycles of end-users. These patterns may not be repeated in subsequent periods. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. The results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. In future quarters, our operating results may be below our expectations or those of our public market analysts or investors, which would likely cause our share price to decline. For example, in March 2005, we announced that our revenue and net income for the three months ended February 28, 2005 would be lower than our previously released guidance and, as a result, our share price subsequently declined substantially. We depend on a small number of OEMs to supply the IT products that we sell and the loss of, or a material change in, our business relationship with a major OEM supplier could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. Our future success is highly dependent on our relationships with a small number of OEM suppliers. Sales of HP and IBM products represented approximately 28% and 5%, respectively, of our total revenue in fiscal 2005 and approximately 28% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenue in fiscal 2004. The decline in sales of IBM products was a result of IBM selling its PC division to Lenovo, with whom we have an ongoing business relationship. Our OEM supplier agreements typically are short-term and may be terminated without cause upon short notice. For example, our agreement with HP will expire on May 31, 2006. The loss or deterioration of our relationships with a major OEM supplier, the authorization by OEM suppliers of additional distributors, the sale of products by OEM suppliers directly to our reseller customers and end-users, or our failure to establish relationships with new OEM suppliers or to expand the distribution and supply chain services that we provide OEM suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. In addition, OEM suppliers may face liquidity or solvency issues that in turn could negatively affect our business and operating results. Our business is also highly dependent on the terms provided by our OEM suppliers. Generally, each OEM supplier has the ability to change the terms and conditions of its sales agreements, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights or reducing the level of purchase discounts, rebates and marketing programs available to us. From time to time we may conduct business with a supplier without a formal agreement because 9 Table of Contents the agreement has expired or otherwise. In such case, we are subject to additional risk with respect to products, warranties and returns, and other terms and conditions. If we are unable to pass the impact of these changes through to our reseller customers, our business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected. Our gross margins are low, which magnifies the impact of variations in revenue, operating costs and bad debt on our operating results. As a result of significant price competition in the IT products industry, our gross margins are low, and we expect them to continue to be low in the future. Increased competition arising from industry consolidation and low demand for certain IT products may hinder our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. These low gross margins magnify the impact of variations in revenue, operating costs and bad debt on our operating results. A portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders that are forecasted with limited visibility of future demand. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to mitigate any further reductions in gross margins in the future. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our business and operating results could suffer. We also receive purchase discounts and rebates from OEM suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. A decrease in net sales could negatively affect the level of volume rebates received from our OEM suppliers and thus, our gross margins. Because some rebates from OEM suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products, it may become more difficult for us to achieve the percentage growth in sales required for larger discounts due to the current size of our revenue base. A decrease or elimination of purchase discounts and rebates from our OEM suppliers would adversely affect our business and operating results. Because we sell on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our reseller and contract assembly customers, which could decrease revenue and adversely affect our operating results. We sell to our reseller and contract assembly customers on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, our sales are subject to demand variability by our reseller and contract assembly customers. The level and timing of orders placed by our reseller and contract assembly customers vary for a variety of reasons, including seasonal buying by end-users, the introduction of new hardware and software technologies and general economic conditions. Customers submitting a purchase order may cancel, reduce or delay their orders. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our reseller and contract assembly customers, we may lose customers because we have an inadequate supply of products, or we may have excess inventory, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. We are subject to the risk that our inventory value may decline, and protective terms under our OEM supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in value, which in turn may harm our business, financial position and operating results. The IT products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory on hand to decline substantially in value or to rapidly become obsolete. Most of our OEM suppliers offer limited protection from the loss in value of inventory. For example, we can receive a credit from many OEM suppliers for products held in inventory in the event of a supplier price reduction. In addition, we have a limited right to return a certain percentage of purchases to most OEM suppliers. These policies are subject to time restrictions and do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. In addition, our OEM suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their protection obligations to us. The decrease or elimination of price protection or the inability of our OEM suppliers to fulfill their protection obligations could lower our gross margins and cause us to record 10 Table of Contents inventory write-downs. If we are unable to manage our inventory with our OEM suppliers with a high degree of precision, we may have insufficient product supplies or we may have excess inventory, resulting in inventory write downs, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. We depend on OEM suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, and any supply shortages or delays could cause us to be unable to timely fulfill orders, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results. Our ability to obtain particular products in the required quantities and to fulfill reseller customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our OEM suppliers. We occasionally experience a supply shortage of certain products as a result of strong demand or problems experienced by our OEM suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of those products may increase, or the products may not be available at all. In addition, our OEM suppliers may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution business, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to resellers. Accordingly, if we are not able to secure and maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our reseller customer orders on a timely basis, our business, financial position and operating results may be adversely affected. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. Our short-term borrowings and off-balance sheet arrangements are variable rate obligations that could expose us to interest rate risks. At November 30, 2005, we had approximately $274.8 million in such variable rate obligations. If interest rates increase, our interest expense would increase, which would negatively affect our net income. Additionally, increasing interest rates may increase our future borrowing costs and restrict our access to capital. A portion of our revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies and any termination or reduction in these financing arrangements could increase our financing costs and harm our business and operating results. A portion of our distribution revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies. Floor plan financing companies are engaged by our customers to finance, or “floor,” the purchase of products from us. In exchange for a fee, we transfer the risk of loss on the sale of our products to the floor plan companies. We currently receive payment from these financing companies within approximately 15 to 30 business days from the date of the sale, which allows our business to operate at much lower relative working capital levels than if such programs were not available. If these floor plan arrangements are terminated or substantially reduced, the need for more working capital and the increased financing cost could harm our business and operating results. We have not experienced any termination or significant reduction in floor plan arrangements in the past. We have significant credit exposure to our reseller customers, and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss and negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position. We extend credit to our reseller customers for a significant portion of our sales to them. Resellers have a period of time, generally 30 days after the date of invoice, to make payment. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our reseller customers will not pay for the products they purchase. In addition, our Mexico subsidiary has entered into a contract with a Mexico reseller customer which involves extended payment terms and could expose us to additional collection risks. Our credit exposure risk may increase due to liquidity or solvency issues experienced by our resellers as a result of an economic downturn or a decrease in IT spending by end-users. If we are unable to collect payment for products we ship to our reseller customers or if our reseller customers are unable to timely pay for the products we ship to them, it will be more difficult or costly to utilize receivable-based financing, which could negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position. 11 Table of Contents We experienced theft of product from our warehouses and future thefts could harm our operating results. From time to time we have experienced incidents of theft at various facilities. In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2005 we experienced theft as a result of break-ins at four of our warehouses in which approximately $12.9 million of inventory was stolen. Based on our investigation, discussions with local law enforcement and meetings with federal authorities, we believe the thefts at our warehouses were part of an organized crime effort that targeted a number of technology equipment warehouses throughout the United States. As a result of the losses in 2003, we reduced our inventory value by $9.4 million, and recorded estimated proceeds, net of deductibles as a receivable from our insurance company, included within “other current assets” on our balance sheet as of November 30, 2003. In January 2004 we received a final settlement from our insurance company that amounted to substantially all of the receivables recorded as of November 30, 2003. In March 2005 approximately $4.0 million of inventory was stolen from our facility in the City of Industry, California. We subsequently recovered approximately $0.5 million through law enforcement and federal authorities. We filed a claim with our insurance provider for the amount of the loss, less a small deductible. We have received substantially all of the claimed amount. These types of incidents may make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain theft coverage in the future. In the future, incidents of theft may re-occur for which we may not be fully insured. A significant portion of our contract assembly revenue comes from a single customer, and any decrease in sales from this customer could adversely affect our revenue. As a result of product transitions, product life cycle, product acceptance and pricing pressure, our business with Sun Microsystems, our primary contract assembly customer, has decreased. Sun Microsystems accounted for approximately $486 million or 93% of our contract assembly revenue in fiscal 2005 and approximately $536 million or 93% in fiscal 2004. Our contract assembly business will remain dependent on our relationship with Sun Microsystems in the foreseeable future, subjecting us to risks with respect to the success and life cycle of Sun Microsystems products we assemble and the pricing terms we negotiate with Sun Microsystems and our suppliers. Accordingly, if we are unable to assemble new and successful products for Sun Microsystems on appropriate pricing terms, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. The future success of our relationship with Sun Microsystems also depends on MiTAC International continuing to work with us to service Sun Microsystems’ requirements at an appropriate cost. We rely on MiTAC International to manufacture and supply subassemblies and components for the computer systems we assemble for Sun Microsystems. As MiTAC International’s ownership interest in us decreases, MiTAC International’s interest in the success of our business and operations may decrease as well. If we are unable to maintain our relationship and appropriate pricing terms with MiTAC International, our relationship with Sun Microsystems could suffer, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results. In addition, if we were unable to obtain assembly contracts for new and successful products our business and operating results would suffer. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions or investments in new markets and may encounter risks associated with these activities, which could harm our business and operating results. We have in the past pursued and in the future expect to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and assets in new markets, either within or outside the IT products industry, that complement or expand our existing business. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including: • difficulty in successfully integrating acquired operations, IT systems, customers, OEM supplier and partner relationships, products and businesses with our operations; • loss of key employees of acquired operations or inability to hire key employees necessary for our expansion; 12 Table of Contents • diversion of our capital and management attention away from other business issues; • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; • in the case of acquisitions that we may make outside of the United States, difficulty in operating in foreign countries and over significant geographical distances; and • other financial risks, such as potential liabilities of the businesses we acquire. Our growth may be limited and our competitive position may be harmed if we are unable to identify, finance and complete future acquisitions. We believe that further expansion may be a prerequisite to our long-term success as some of our competitors in the IT product distribution industry have larger international operations, higher revenues and greater financial resources than us. We have incurred costs and encountered difficulties in the past in connection with our acquisitions and investments. For example, our operating margins were initially adversely affected as a result of our acquisition of Merisel Canada Inc. and we have written off substantial investments in the past, one of which was eManage.com, Inc. Also, our acquisition of EMJ Data Systems, Ltd., or EMJ, caused an initial negative effect on our operating margins as we integrated EMJ’s systems, operations and personnel. Future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, large write-offs, a decrease in future profitability, or future losses. The incurrence of debt in connection with any future acquisitions could restrict our ability to obtain working capital or other financing necessary to operate our business. Our recent and future acquisitions or investments may not be successful, and if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions, including inventory management, order processing, shipping, shipment tracking and billing. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, shipping products or billing customers. Sales also may be affected if our reseller customers are unable to access our price and product availability information. We also rely on the Internet, and in particular electronic data interchange, or EDI, for a large portion of our orders and information exchanges with our OEM suppliers and reseller customers. The Internet and individual web sites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some web sites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our OEM suppliers or reseller customers. Disruption of our web site or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our OEM suppliers or reseller customers from accessing information. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of products, and price increases or service interruptions from these carriers could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as FedEx and UPS, for the delivery of our products from OEM suppliers and delivery of products to reseller customers. Freight and shipping charges can have a significant impact on our gross margin. As a result, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel cost or general price increases will have an immediate adverse effect on our margins, unless we are able to pass the increased charges to our reseller customers or renegotiate terms with our OEM suppliers. In addition, in the past, UPS has experienced work stoppages due to labor negotiations with management. The termination of our arrangements with one or more of these independent shipping companies, the failure or inability of one or more of these independent shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Because we conduct substantial operations in China, risks associated with economic, political and social events in China could negatively affect our business and operating results. A substantial portion of our IT systems operations, including our IT systems support and software development operations, is located in China. In addition, we also conduct general and administrative activities from our facility in China. As of November 30, 2005, we had 414 personnel located in China. We expect to increase our operations in China in the future. Our operations in China are subject to a number of risks relating to China’s economic and political systems, including: • a government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese renminbi; • extensive government regulation; • changing governmental policies relating to tax benefits available to foreign-owned businesses; • the telecommunications infrastructure; • a relatively uncertain legal system; and • uncertainties related to continued economic and social reform. In addition, external events in Asia, such as the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and heightened political tensions in this region may adversely affect our business by disrupting the IT supply chain, restricting travel or interfering with the electronic and communications infrastructure. Our IT systems are an important part of our global operations. Any significant interruption in service, whether resulting from any of the above uncertainties, natural disasters or otherwise, could result in delays in our inventory purchasing, errors in order fulfillment, reduced levels of customer service and other disruptions in operations, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, approximately 20% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated outside the United States. Most of our international revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. We presently have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will make it more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars to purchase inventory or pay expenses with foreign currencies. This could have a negative impact to us if revenue related to these purchases are transacted in U.S. dollars. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency as well as make our products, which are usually purchased by us with U.S. dollars, relatively more expensive than products manufactured locally. We currently conduct only limited hedging activities, which involve the use of currency forward contracts. Hedging foreign currencies can be risky. For example, in fiscal 2003 we incurred $3.7 million of foreign currency transaction losses as a result of purchases of forward contracts not conducted within our normal hedging practices and procedures, combined with a weakening U.S. dollar. There is also additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to hedge or to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Because of the experience of our key personnel in the IT products industry and their technological expertise, if we were to lose any of our key personnel, it could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We operate in the highly competitive IT products industry. We are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key senior executives and other technical experts and personnel. Our employees and executives do not have employment agreements. Furthermore, we do not carry “key person” insurance coverage for any of our key executives. We compete for qualified senior management and technical personnel. The loss of, or inability to hire, key executives or qualified employees could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We may become involved in intellectual property or other disputes that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may from time to time receive notifications alleging infringements of intellectual property rights allegedly held by others relating to our business or the products we sell or assemble for our OEM suppliers and others. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we generally have various levels of indemnification protection from our OEM suppliers and contract assembly customers, in many cases any indemnification to which we may be entitled is subject to maximum limits or other restrictions. In addition, we have developed proprietary IT systems that play an important role in our business. If any infringement claim is successful against us and if indemnification is not available or sufficient, we may be required to pay substantial damages or we may need to seek and obtain a license of the other party’s intellectual property rights. We may be unable to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We are from time to time involved in other litigation in the ordinary course of business. For example, we are currently defending a trademark infringement action and a civil matter involving third party investors in eManage.com, Inc. and are appealing the $4.2 million judgment entered against Daisytek (Canada), Inc., a former wholly owned subsidiary of EMJ, by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas. We may not be successful in defending these or other claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation could result in substantial expense and could divert the efforts of our management. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our business, we need continued access to capital, which, if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. If cash from available sources is insufficient, proceeds from our accounts receivable securitization program are limited or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Our current and future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry. We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in any credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends. Furthermore, the cost of debt financing has increased recently and could significantly increase in the future, making it cost prohibitive to borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience additional dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents The terms of our indebtedness agreements impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate which in turn may negatively affect our ability to respond to business and market conditions and therefore have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. As of November 30, 2005, we had approximately $29.7 million in outstanding short and long-term borrowings under term loans and lines of credit, excluding trade payables. As of November 30, 2005, approximately $274.8 million of our accounts receivable were sold to and held by two financial institutions under our accounts receivable securitization program. The terms of our current indebtedness agreements restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments; • consummate certain asset sales or acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • merge, consolidate or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, including minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratio as outlined in our senior secured revolving line of credit arrangement. We may be unable to meet these ratios and tests, which could result in the acceleration of the repayment of the related debt, the termination of the facility or the increase in our effective cost of funds. As a result, our ability to operate may be restricted and our ability to respond to business and market conditions limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We have significant operations concentrated in Northern California, South Carolina, Toronto and Beijing and any disruption in the operations of our facilities could harm our business and operating results. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We have significant operations in our facilities located in Fremont, California, Greenville, South Carolina, Toronto, Canada and Beijing, China. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures, break-ins, destruction or damage to the facilities as a result of a natural disaster, fire or any other reason, could harm our operating results. We currently do not have a formal disaster recovery plan and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. Global health, economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, geopolitical and social turmoil or epidemics such as SARS and other similar outbreaks in many parts of the world could prevent or hinder our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. For example, increased instability may adversely impact the desire of employees and customers to travel, the reliability and cost of transportation, our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or require us to incur increased costs for security measures for our domestic and international operations. These uncertainties make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities. More generally, these geopolitical social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. 16 Table of Contents Part of our business is conducted outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have international operations in Canada, China, Mexico and the United Kingdom. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, approximately 20% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated outside the United States. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, approximately 16% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated in Canada. No other country or region accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Our international operations are subject to risks, including: • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in import/export duties; • trade restrictions; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • difficulties in collecting of accounts receivables on a timely basis or at all; • taxes; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. We may continue to expand internationally to respond to competitive pressure and customer and market requirements. Establishing operations in any other foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. In addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new geography or region, the likelihood of collecting receivables generated by such operations could be less than our expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves set with respect to the collection of such receivables may be inadequate. In addition, our Mexico subsidiary has entered into a contract with a Mexico reseller customer which involves extended payment terms and could expose us to additional collection risks. Further, if our international expansion efforts in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we may decide to cease operations, which would likely cause us to incur similar additional expenses and loss. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. Furthermore, any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade or investment could adversely affect our business. If we fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer. Risks Related to Our Relationship with MiTAC International We rely on MiTAC International for certain manufacturing and assembly services and the loss of these services would require us to seek alternate providers that may charge us more for their services. We rely on MiTAC International to manufacture and supply subassemblies and components for some of our contract assembly customers, including Sun Microsystems, our primary contract assembly customer, and our reliance on MiTAC International may increase in the future. Our relationship with MiTAC International has been informal and is not governed by long-term commitments or arrangements with respect to pricing terms, revenue or capacity commitments. Accordingly, we negotiate manufacturing and pricing terms on a project-by-project 17 Table of Contents basis, based on manufacturing services rendered by MiTAC International or us. As MiTAC’s ownership interest in us decreases, MiTAC’s interest in the success of our business and operations may decrease as well. In the event MiTAC International no longer provides such services and components to us, we would need to find an alternative source for these services and components. We may be unable to obtain alternative services and components on similar terms, which may in turn increase our manufacturing costs. In addition, we may not find manufacturers with sufficient capacity, which may in turn lead to shortages in our product supplies. Increased costs and products shortages could harm our business and operating results. Our business relationship with MiTAC International has been and will continue to be negotiated as related parties and therefore may not be the result of arms’-length negotiations between independent parties. Our relationship, including pricing and other material terms with our shared customers or with MiTAC International, may or may not be as advantageous to us as the terms we could have negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We have a joint sales and marketing agreement with MiTAC International, pursuant to which both parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to promote the other party’s service offerings to their respective customers who are interested in such product offerings. To date, there has not been a significant amount of sales attributable to the joint marketing agreement. This agreement does not provide for the terms upon which we negotiate manufacturing and pricing terms. These negotiations have been on a case-by-case basis. The agreement had an initial term of one year and will automatically renew for subsequent one-year terms unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal within 90 days of the end of any renewal term. The agreement may also be terminated without cause either by the mutual written agreement of both parties or by either party without cause upon 90 days prior written notice of termination to the other party. Either party may immediately terminate the agreement by providing written notice (a) of the other party’s material breach of any provision of the agreement and failure to cure within 30 days, or (b) if the other party becomes bankrupt or insolvent. In addition, we are party to a general agreement with MiTAC International and Sun Microsystems under which we work with MiTAC International to provide contract assembly services to Sun Microsystems. Some of our customer relationships evolved from relationships between such customers and MiTAC International and the loss of such relationships could harm our business and operating results. Our relationship with Sun Microsystems and some of our other customers evolved from customer relationships that were initiated by MiTAC International. Our relationship with Sun Microsystems is a joint relationship with MiTAC International and us, and the future success of our relationship with Sun Microsystems depends on MiTAC International continuing to work with us to service Sun Microsystems’ requirements. The original agreement between Sun Microsystems and MiTAC International was signed on August 28, 1999 and we became a party to the agreement on February 12, 2002. Substantially all of our contract assembly services to Sun Microsystems are covered by the general agreement. The agreement continues indefinitely until terminated in accordance with its terms. Sun Microsystems may terminate this agreement for any reason on 60 days written notice. Any party may terminate the agreement with written notice if one of the other parties materially breaches any provision of the agreement and the breach is incapable of being cured or is not cured within 30 days. The agreement may also be terminated on written notice if one of the other parties becomes bankrupt or insolvent. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with MiTAC International, our relationship with Sun Microsystems could suffer and we could lose other customer relationships or referrals, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results. There could be potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of MiTAC International, which could impact our business and operating results. MiTAC International’s and its affiliates’ continuing beneficial ownership of our common stock could create conflicts of interest with respect to a variety of matters, such as potential acquisitions, competition, issuance or disposition of securities, election of directors, payment of dividends and other business matters. Similar risks could exist as a result of Matthew Miau’s positions as our Chairman, the Chairman of MiTAC International and as a director or officer of MiTAC International’s affiliated companies. For fiscal year 2005, Mr. Miau received a 18 Table of Contents retainer of $225,000 from us. Compensation payable to Mr. Miau is based upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee and subject to the approval of the Board of Directors. We also have adopted a policy requiring material transactions in which any of our directors has a potential conflict of interest to be approved by our Audit Committee, which is composed of disinterested members of the Board. Synnex Technology International Corp., or Synnex Technology International, a publicly traded company based in Taiwan and affiliated with MiTAC International, currently provides distribution and fulfillment services to various markets in Asia and Australia, and is also a potential competitor of ours. Mitac Incorporated, a privately held company based in Taiwan and a separate entity from MiTAC International, directly and indirectly owns approximately 15.3% of Synnex Technology International and approximately 8.8% of MiTAC International. MiTAC International directly and indirectly owns 0.3% of Synnex Technology International and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owns approximately 0.5% of MiTAC International. In addition, MiTAC International directly and indirectly owns approximately 8.8% of Mitac Incorporated and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owns approximately 14.3% of Mitac Incorporated. Synnex Technology International indirectly through its ownership of Peer Developments Limited owns approximately 18.3% of our outstanding common stock. Neither MiTAC International nor Synnex Technology International is restricted from competing with us. In the future, we may increasingly compete with Synnex Technology International, particularly if our business in Asia expands or Synnex Technology International expands its business into geographies or customers we serve. Although Synnex Technology International is a separate entity from us, it is possible that there will be confusion as a result of the similarity of our names. Moreover, we cannot limit or control the use of the Synnex name by Synnex Technology International or MiTAC International, and our use of the Synnex name may be restricted as a result of registration of the name by Synnex Technology International or the prior use in jurisdictions where they currently operate. As of November 30, 2005, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owned approximately 57% of our common stock and this concentration of ownership allows them to control all matters requiring stockholder approval and could delay or prevent a change in control of SYNNEX. As of November 30, 2005, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, MiTAC International and its affiliates, owned approximately 57% of our common stock. MiTAC International and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us as of November 30, 2005. As a result, MiTAC International will be able to control the outcome of matters submitted to the stockholders including any acquisition or sale of us. In addition, MiTAC International’s interests and ours may increasingly conflict. For example, we rely on MiTAC International for certain manufacturing and supply services and for relationships with certain key customers. As a result of a decrease in their ownership in us, we may lose these services and relationships, which may lead to increased costs to replace the lost services and the loss of certain key customers. We cannot predict the likelihood that we may incur increased costs or lose customers if MiTAC International’s ownership percentage of us decreases in the future. Risks Related to Our Industry Volatility in the IT industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The IT industry in which we operate has experienced decreases in demand. Softening demand for our products and services caused by an ongoing economic downturn and over-capacity were responsible, in part, for a decline in our revenue in fiscal 2001, as well as problems with the saleability of inventory and collection of reseller customer receivables. The North American economy and market conditions continue to be challenging in the IT industry. As a result, individuals and companies may delay or reduce expenditures, including those for IT products. While in 19 Table of Contents the past we may have benefited from the consolidation in our industry resulting from the slowdown, further delays or reductions in IT spending in particular, and economic weakness generally, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our distribution business may be adversely affected by some OEM suppliers’ strategies to increase their direct sales, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Consolidation of OEM suppliers has resulted in fewer sources for some of the products that we distribute. This consolidation has also resulted in larger OEM suppliers that have significant operating and financial resources. Some OEM suppliers, including some of the leading OEM suppliers that we service, have been selling a greater volume of products directly to end-users, thereby limiting our business opportunities. If large OEM suppliers continue the trend to sell directly to our resellers, rather than use us as the distributor of their products, our business and operating results will suffer. OEMs are limiting the number of supply chain service providers with which they do business, which in turn could negatively impact our business and operating results. Currently, there is a trend towards reducing the number of authorized distributors used by OEM suppliers. As a smaller market participant in the IT product distribution and contract assembly industries, than some of our competitors, we may be more susceptible to loss of business from further reductions of authorized distributors or contract assemblers by IT product OEMs. For example, the termination of Sun Microsystems’ contract assembly business with us would have a significant negative effect on our revenue and operating results. A determination by any of our primary OEMs to consolidate their business with other distributors or contract assemblers would negatively affect our business and operating results. The IT industry is subject to rapidly changing technologies and process developments, and we may not be able to adequately adjust our business to these changes, which in turn would harm our business and operating results. Dynamic changes in the IT industry, including the consolidation of OEM suppliers and reductions in the number of authorized distributors used by OEM suppliers, have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed, and continue to place, a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems and other resources. We may be unable to successfully respond to and manage our business in light of industry developments and trends. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale or to respond to changes in the IT industry could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to intense competition in the IT industry, both in the United States and internationally, and if we fail to compete successfully, we will be unable to gain or retain market share. We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally. The IT product distribution and contract assembly industries are characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines, pre-sale and post-sale technical support, flexibility and timely response to design changes, technological capabilities, service and support. We compete with a variety of regional, national and international IT product distributors and contract manufacturers and assemblers. In some instances, we also compete with our own customers, our own OEM suppliers and MiTAC International. Our primary competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, operating, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Some of our competitors may have broader geographic breadth and range of services than us and may have more developed relationships with their existing customers. We may lose market share in the United States or in international markets, or may be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a reduction in our gross margins. 20 Table of Contents We may initiate other business activities, including the broadening of our supply chain capabilities, and may face competition from companies with more experience in those new areas. In addition, as we enter new areas of business, we may also encounter increased competition from current competitors or from new competitors, including some who may once have been our OEM suppliers or reseller customers. Increased competition and negative reaction from our OEM suppliers or reseller customers resulting from our expansion into new business areas may harm our business and operating results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2004 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. We expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised or are under review. The FASB and other agencies 21 Table of Contents have finalized changes to GAAP that will require us, starting in our quarter ending February 28, 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that we expect will reduce our overall net income. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has been subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Share prices and trading volumes for many distribution and contract assembly service related companies fluctuate widely for a number of reasons, including some reasons which may be unrelated to their businesses or results of operations. This market volatility, as well as general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions, could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. Significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could result in securities class action claims against us, which could seriously harm our operating results. Securities class action claims have been brought against companies in the past where volatility in the market price of that company’s securities has taken place. This kind of litigation could be very costly and divert our management’s attention and resources, and any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire us in a hostile takeover. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting shares. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains certain provisions that, together with the ownership position of our officers, directors and their affiliates, could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to additional rules and regulations as a public company, which will increase our administration costs which, in turn, could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. In addition to final rules and rule proposals already made by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, has adopted revisions to its requirements for companies that are NYSE-listed. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and made some activities more time consuming or costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 