Item 1A. Risk Factors Saia stockholders should be aware of certain risks, including those described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which could adversely affect the value of their holdings and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customer business cycles. Economic conditions may adversely affect the business levels of our customers, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Weakness or a loss of confidence in financial markets could adversely impact demand for our services. Weakness or a loss of confidence in the financial markets could cause broader economic downturns and impact the ability of our customers to access the capital or credit markets which may lead to lower demand for our services, increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts, or insolvency of our customers, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Potential disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity and letter of credit requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. If internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility. Our access to funds under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. We are dependent on cost and availability of qualified drivers and purchased transportation. There is significant competition for qualified drivers within the trucking industry and attracting and retaining drivers has become more challenging. We may periodically experience shortages of qualified drivers that could result in us not meeting customer demands, upward pressure on driver wages, underutilization of our truck fleet and/or use of higher cost purchased transportation which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There is also significant competition for quality purchased transportation within the trucking industry. We may periodically experience shortages of quality purchased transportation that could result in us not meeting customer demands which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on cost and availability of fuel. Fuel is a significant operating expense and its availability is vital to daily operations. We do not hedge against the risk of fuel price increases. Global political events, acts of terrorism, federal, state and local regulations, natural disasters and other external factors could influence the cost and availability of fuel. Increases in fuel prices to the extent not offset by fuel surcharges or other customer price increases or any fuel shortages or interruption in the supply or distribution of fuel could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Historically, we have been able to offset significant fuel price increases through fuel surcharges and other pricing adjustments but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. In recent years, given the significance of fuel surcharges, the negotiation of customer price increases has become commingled with fuel surcharges. We have experienced cost increases in other operating costs as a result of increased fuel prices; however, the total impact of higher energy prices on other non-fuel related expenses is difficult to determine. A rapid and significant decline in diesel fuel prices would reduce our revenue and yield until we make the appropriate adjustments to our pricing strategy. Limited supply and increased prices of new revenue equipment and real estate may adversely impact financial results and cash flows. Investment in new revenue equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures. We may have difficulty in purchasing new trucks due to decreased supply, restrictions on the availability of capital and the price of such equipment may be adversely impacted by future regulations on newly manufactured diesel engines. Our business model is also dependent on cost and availability of terminal facilities in key metropolitan areas. Shortages in the availability of real estate or delays in construction due to difficulties in obtaining permits may require significant additional investment in leasing, purchasing or building facilities, increase our operating 10 Table of Contents expenses and/or prevent us from efficiently serving certain markets. In addition, we may not realize sufficient revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments. The engines in our newer tractors are subject to new emissions-control regulations which could substantially increase operating expenses. Tractor engines that comply with the EPA emission-control design requirements have generally less fuel-efficient in the past and have increased maintenance costs compared to engines in tractors manufactured before these requirements became effective. If we are unable to offset resulting increases in fuel expenses or maintenance costs with higher freight rates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Company-specific performance improvement initiatives may not be effective. Operating performance improvement at Saia is dependent on the implementation and/or the continuation of various performance improvement initiatives. There can be no assurance that Saia will be successful in implementing these performance improvement initiatives or that Saia’s historical performance trend will be representative of future performance. Failure to achieve performance improvement initiatives could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated and highly taxed industry. Costs of compliance with or liability for violation of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other authorities relating to engine exhaust emissions, driver hours of service, security, ergonomics, as well as other unforeseen matters. Compliance with such regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. Various federal and state authorities impose significant operating taxes on the transportation industry, including fuel taxes, tolls, excise and other taxes. There can be no assurance such taxes will not substantially increase or that new forms of operating taxes will not be imposed on the industry. The FMCSA has amended rules on motor carrier driver hours of service which limit the maximum number of hours a driver may be on duty between mandatory off-duty hours. Our operations were adjusted to comply with these rules, and while our base operations were not materially affected, we did experience deterioration in the cost, availability and reliability of purchased transportation. Revisions to these rules, as a result of pending or future legal challenges or any future requirements for on-board recorders, could further impact our operations, further tighten the market for qualified drivers and put additional pressure on driver wages and purchased transportation costs. The Transportation Security Administration continues to focus on trailer security, driver identification and security clearance and border crossing procedures. These and other safety and security measures, such as rules for transportation of hazardous materials could increase the cost of operations, reduce the number of qualified drivers and disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries for our customers. Historically, the EPA has issued regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines. These regulations increased the cost of replacing and maintaining trucks and increased fuel costs by reducing miles per gallon. These regulations have the potential to reduce availability of fuel and reduce productivity which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Costs of compliance with or liabilities for violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. In addition, as climate change concerns become more prevalent, federal and local governments and our customers are beginning to respond to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. CSA could adversely affect our results and ability to maintain or grow our business. Under CSA, a new carrier safety measurement mandated by the FMCSA, carriers and individual drivers are evaluated and ranked based on certain safety-related standards. It is possible that these new measurements could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain drivers which would adversely affect our results and cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business will be adversely impacted if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following: • competition with many other transportation service providers of varying types including non-asset based logistics and freight brokerage companies, some of which have greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages; • transportation companies periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during economic recessions or times of reduced growth rates in the economy which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or achieve significant growth in our business; and • advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. The transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Businesses operating in the transportation industry are affected by risks that are largely out of their control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. These factors include health of the economy, weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel costs, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, health care costs and insurance premiums. Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. Our business is highly capital intensive. Our net capital expenditures from continuing operations for 2012 were approximately $83 million. Additionally, we anticipate net capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately 12 Table of Contents $90 million. We depend on cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and operating leases. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements or operate our trucks and trailers for longer periods. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under our current credit facilities, we are subject to certain debt covenants and prepayment penalties. Those debt covenants prohibit the payment of dividends and require maintenance of certain maximum leverage and minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth and a borrowing base, among other restrictions, that could limit availability of capital to meet our future growth. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Our credit and debt agreements contain financial and other restrictive covenants and we may be unable to comply with these covenants. A default could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We must maintain certain financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit and debt agreements, including among others, a fixed charge coverage ratio, leverage ratio, minimum tangible net worth and a borrowing base. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, we will be in default under the relevant agreement which could cause cross-defaults under other financial arrangements. In the event of any such default, if we fail to obtain replacement financing, amendments to or waivers under the applicable financing arrangements, our financing sources could cease making further advances or declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. If acceleration occurs, we may have difficulty in borrowing sufficient additional funds to refinance the accelerated debt or we may have to issue securities which would dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable terms. A default under our credit and debt agreements could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce and cause volatility to our earnings. We are exposed to claims resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, group health care and workers’ compensation in amounts ranging from $250,000 to $2.0 million per claim. We also maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies above these large deductible amounts. If the number or severity of future claims increases, insurance claim expenses might exceed historical levels which could significantly reduce our earnings. A deterioration in safety experience could cause customers to switch business to competitors. Significant increases in insurance premiums could also impact financial results or cause us to raise our self-insured retentions. Furthermore, insurance companies, as well as certain states, require collateral in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds for the estimated exposure of claims within our self-insured retentions. Their estimate of our future exposure as well as external market conditions could influence the amount and costs of additional letters of credit required under our insurance programs and thereby reduce capital available for future growth. Employees of Saia are non-union. The ability of Saia to compete could be impaired if operations were to become unionized. None of our employees are currently subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have in the past been the subject of unionization efforts which have been defeated. However, the U.S. Congress could pass labor legislation, such as the formerly proposed Employee Free Choice Act, which could make it significantly easier 13 Table of Contents for unionization efforts to be successful. If this bill or a variation of it is enacted in the future or if federal regulations regarding labor relations are changed, it could have an adverse impact on our business. While Saia believes its current relationship with its employees is good, there can be no assurance that further unionization efforts will not occur in the future and that such efforts will be defeated. The non-union status of Saia is an important factor in our ability to compete in our markets. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely impacted. The future success of our business will continue to depend on our executive officers and certain other key employees who, with the exception of Mr. O’Dell, do not have employment agreements. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes to our compensation and benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Like other companies, we implemented certain salary and wage cost initiatives in 2009 in response to macro-economic challenges. Such initiatives have largely been reversed as our financial performance improved. If our salary and wages are not competitive, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. An increase in the cost of healthcare benefits could have a negative impact on our profitability. We maintain and sponsor health insurance for our employees and their dependents and offer a competitive healthcare program to attract and retain our employees. It is possible that healthcare costs could become increasingly cost prohibitive, either forcing us to make changes to our benefits program or negatively impacting our future profitability. The legislation on healthcare reform and related regulations could affect the healthcare benefits required to be provided by the Company and cause our compensation costs to increase, adversely affecting our results and cash flows. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and regulations that interpret the law contain provisions which could materially impact the future healthcare costs of the Company. While the legislation’s ultimate impact is not yet known, it is possible that these changes could significantly increase our employee benefits costs which would adversely affect our results and cash flows. Expanded coverage for dependents and elimination of caps on individual maximum expenditures increased the Company’s costs starting in 2011 and again in 2012. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business and any disruption to our technology infrastructure could harm our operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and compete effectively depends in part upon reliability of our technology network including our ability to provide services that are important to our customers. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure, including those impacting our computer systems and web site, could adversely impact our customer service and revenues and result in increased costs. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully protect us from technology disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on us. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could have anti-takeover effects. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 14 Table of Contents Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company. Such provisions include, for example, provisions classifying our Board of Directors, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, authorization of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in series with the terms of each series to be fixed by the Board of Directors and an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals and nominations to the Board of Directors. These provisions may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts. We may not make future acquisitions or, if we do, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We may make additional acquisitions in the future. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating or consummating any future acquisitions. Additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions. Each acquisition has numerous risks including: • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with legal and financial contingencies, among other things. In the event that the integrations are not successfully completed, there could be a material adverse effect on us. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. We face litigation regarding a variety of issues, including without limitation, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws and accidents involving our trucks and employees. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of such lawsuits could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance and could have a material adverse affect on us. The market value of our common stock may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and the fluctuations may be unrelated to our financial performance. Our share price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • Actual or anticipated variations in our earnings, financial or operating performance or liquidity, or those of other companies in our industry; • Changes in recommendations or projections of research analysts who follow our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry; • Failure to meet the earnings projections of research analysts who follow our stock; • Changes in general economic and capital market conditions, including general market price declines or market volatility; • Reactions to our regulatory filings and announcements related to our business; • Operating and stock performance of other companies in our industry; • Actions by government regulators; • Litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; 15 Table of Contents • News reports or trends, concerns and other issues related to us or our industry, including changes in regulations; and • Other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome resulting from these risks and uncertainties. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 