Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 9 Risks Relating to our Business We have a history of net losses, we anticipate additional losses and may never become profitable. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of approximately $7.1 million. In addition, as of March 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was approximately $100 million. Our losses have resulted primarily from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from selling and marketing our products. We expect to continue to incur additional operating losses through fiscal 2009 as we continue our research and development efforts, introduce new products and expand our sales and marketing activities. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or that we will be profitable in any future period. If we fail to obtain additional financing when needed, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our rugged notebook and may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our other products. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. From our inception in 1996, we have financed our operations and met our capital expenditure requirements primarily from debt and equity financings totaling $95 million. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to complete the development and commercialization of our rugged notebook and rugged convertible notebook and to continue our research and development programs, including those to advance our current product line. As at March 31, 2008, our working capital was approximately $5.1 million and our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $0.7 million. We believe that cash flow from operations, together with borrowings from our credit facility and, if necessary, financial support from Phoenix Venture Fund LLC ("Phoenix"), our significant shareholder, and its affiliates will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operations for the next 12 months. However, we may seek to access the public or private markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. It is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. To the extent we raise additional funds by issuing equity our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may require us to agree to restrictive covenants that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed or on acceptable terms, we would likely be unable to carry out our business plan, and would have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products, the occurrence of which could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to decline. Since our revenues are highly dependent on one product family, any significant reduction of sales of this product family would materially harm our operating results. Because our revenues are derived substantially from sales of our iX104 Systems, we are highly dependent upon the continued market acceptance of the iX104 product family. We cannot assure you that the iX104 product family will continue to achieve acceptance in the marketplace. Any significant reduction of sales of the iX104 product family would materially harm our operating results. We may not be able to develop a rugged notebook or a convertible rugged notebook or develop a notebook that is accepted by the market, in which case our planned future growth would be negatively affected. We do not currently have a product in the rugged notebook market; however, we are developing a rugged notebook and a convertible rugged notebook. Our future growth is based in part upon these products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop a rugged notebook or a convertible rugged notebook or that any notebook we develop will be able to compete or have any success in the marketplace. If we are unable to develop a rugged notebook or a convertible rugged notebook or if we 10 do develop a rugged notebook or a convertible rugged notebook but it is not accepted by the market, our planned future growth would be negatively affected. In fiscal year 2008, approximately 10% of our revenue was derived from one of our value-added resellers. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one of our major resellers with revenues from others in future periods, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth would be limited. Historically, in any given year a single value-added reseller (or VAR) customer could account for more than 10% of our revenue. In fiscal year 2008, one VAR customer, Methec B.V. Industrielaan, accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue and in fiscal year 2007, no one VAR customer accounted for over 10% of our total revenue. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one of our major resellers with revenues from others our revenues may fluctuate and our growth would be limited. We experience lengthy sales cycles for our products and the delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. The purchase of an iX104 system is often an enterprise-wide decision for prospective end-user customers, which requires us to engage in sales efforts over an extended period of time and provide a significant level of education to prospective end-user customers regarding the uses and benefits of such systems. As a result, our products generally have a lengthy sales cycle ranging from several months to several years. Consequently, if forecasted sales from a specific end-user customer are not realized, we may not be able to generate revenue from alternative sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. The loss or delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. Moreover, to the extent that significant contracts are entered into and performed earlier than expected, operating results for subsequent periods may be adversely affected. We are currently dependent on Wistron and Pegatron to manufacture our products and products under development and our reliance subjects us to significant operational risks, any of which would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers should they occur. We currently rely primarily on Wistron for the manufacture of our products and Pegatron to manufacture products under development and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Our reliance involves a number of risks, including: •reduced management and control of component purchases; •reduced control over delivery schedule and quality assurance; •reduced control over manufacturing yields; •lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; •limited warranties on products supplied to us; •potential increases in prices; •interruption of supplies from assemblers as a result of fire, natural calamity, strike or other significant events; and •misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our business is therefore dependent upon Wistron and Pegatron for their manufacturing abilities. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, we purchased approximately $11.3 million and $16.3 million, respectively, from Wistron. Both the Wistron Agreement and the Pegatron Agreement contain a provision that allows for termination for any reason, accordingly, we cannot assure you that Wistron and Pegatron will continue to work with us, that they will be able to meet our manufacturing 11 needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, that Wistron or Pegatron has the required capacity to satisfy our manufacturing needs or that we can obtain additional or alternative manufacturers when and if needed. The availability to us of Wistron or Pegatron, and the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities is not within our control, and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter manufacturing problems that would materially harm our business. The loss of Wistron or Pegatron, a significant price increase, an interruption of supply or the inability to obtain additional or an alternative manufacturer when and if needed would impair our ability to deliver our products to our customers. We face competition from companies that have greater resources than we do and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Many of our competitors, such as DRS Technologies, Inc. in the tablet area and Panasonic in the notebook markets, have much greater financial, technical, research and development resources and production and marketing capabilities than we do. The principal competitive factors in our industry include: •product performance, features and reliability; •price; •name recognition in the marketplace; and •product availability and lead times. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors our sales would suffer and as a result our financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property, our competitive position will be harmed. Our ability to compete is heavily affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we take to protect our technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information which we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, time consuming and costly. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, the effect of either of which would harm our competitive position in the market. Others could claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, which may result in costly and time consuming litigation and could delay or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of our products. We do not believe that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by us or our licensees with respect to current or future products. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement, any of which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. If we are unable to obtain a required license, our ability to sell or use certain products may be impaired. In addition, if we fail to obtain a license, or if the terms of the license are burdensome to us, our operations could be materially harmed. 12 We are subject to risks by doing business outside of the United States which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, approximately 42% and 44%, respectively, of our revenue was comprised of sales made outside of the United States. Our operations may be materially and adversely affected by many risks related to doing business outside of the United States, including: •increases in duty rates, exchange or price controls; •governmental currency controls; •import restrictions; •political, social and economic changes and disruptions; •in certain jurisdictions, reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; and •difficulty in enforcing contracts or legal rights under foreign legal systems. The occurrence of any one these risks could impair our ability to grow our revenues. If we are unable to retain key personnel we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our operations are dependent on the abilities, experience and efforts of a number of key personnel, including our Chairman, Philip S. Sassower, Mark Holleran, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael J. Rapisand, our Chief Financial Officer, Bryan Bell, our Vice President of Engineering, Randy Paramore, our Vice President of Supply Chain and Gregory E. Arends, our Chief Technology Officer. Should any of these persons or other key employees be unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. In addition, our success is highly dependent on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring skilled personnel could harm our relations with our customers and our ability to respond to technological change which would prevent us from executing our business strategy. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock Two of our shareholders, Philip S. Sassower and Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, own in the aggregate approximately 36.0% of our voting securities and thus have effective control over matters requiring shareholder approval. One of our shareholders, Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, is co-managed by Philip S. Sassower, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Andrea Goren, one of our directors, and beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 24.6% of our outstanding voting securities. In addition, Mr. Sassower, together with entities controlled by him, beneficially own approximately 11.4%, in the aggregate, of our outstanding voting securities. Thus, Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower together control approximately 36.0% of our outstanding voting securities. Accordingly, Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower have the ability to exercise significant influence (and have effective control) over matters generally requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. 13 Some of the rights granted to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could prevent a potential acquirer from buying our company. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which include Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower, have the right to block the company from consummating a merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of its assets or liquidation. Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower together control more than 70.7% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could prevent the consummation of a transaction in which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price for their shares. The anti-takeover effect of certain of our charter provisions could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our authorized capital consists of preferred stock issuable in one or more series. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and determine the price, designation, rights, preferences, privileges, restrictions and conditions, including voting and dividend rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of additional preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting shares, which could deprive our holders of common stock of a premium that they might otherwise realize in connection with a proposed acquisition of our company. Many factors can adversely affect the price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially. We believe that a variety of factors have caused and could in the future cause the stock price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: •announcements of developments related to our business; •quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; •announcements of technological innovations; •new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; •developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and litigation; •developments in our relationships with our third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; •developments in our relationships with our customers and/or suppliers; and •general conditions in the worldwide economy. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the market for shares of small capitalization technology companies in particular, has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. Any fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the market price of our common stock may decline. Dividends are not expected to be paid on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to retain any future earnings to finance the future development and expansion of our business. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors 14 and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, operating and financial conditions and on such other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock unless and until all accrued and unpaid dividends (which are paid in common stock) are paid on our shares of Series A, Series B, and Series C Preferred Stock. Furthermore, under the terms of our loan agreement with a commercial bank, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 