Item 1A. Risk Factors Saia shareholders should be aware of certain risks, including those described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which could adversely affect the value of their holdings and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors that may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, many of which are largely out of our control. These include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customer business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries, such as retail, manufacturing and chemical, where we have a significant concentration of customers. Economic conditions may adversely affect the business levels of our customers, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. It is not possible to predict the long-term effects of terrorist attacks and subsequent events on the economy or on customer confidence in the United States, or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations. We are dependent on cost and availability of qualified drivers and purchased transportation. There is significant competition for qualified drivers within the trucking industry and attracting and retaining drivers has become more challenging. We may periodically experience shortages of qualified drivers that could result in us not meeting customer demands, upward pressure on driver wages, underutilization of our truck fleet and/or use of higher cost purchased transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There is also significant competition for quality purchased transportation within the trucking industry. We may periodically 8 Table of Contents experience shortages of quality purchased transportation that could result in us not meeting customer demands, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on cost and availability of fuel. Fuel is a significant operating expense. We do not hedge against the risk of fuel price increases. Global political events, federal, state and local regulations, natural disasters and other external factors could influence the cost and availability of fuel. Increases in fuel prices to the extent not offset by fuel surcharges or other customer price increases or any fuel shortages or interruption in the supply or distribution of fuel could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Historically we have been able to offset significant fuel price increases through fuel surcharges and other pricing adjustments to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, in recent years, given the significance of fuel surcharges, the negotiation of customer price increases has become commingled with fuel surcharges and fuel surcharges have more than offset higher diesel fuel costs. We have experienced cost increases in other operating costs as a result of increased fuel prices. However, the total impact of higher energy prices on other non-fuel related expenses is difficult to determine. A rapid and significant decline in diesel fuel prices would reduce the Company’s revenue and yield until we made the appropriate adjustments to our pricing strategy. Limited supply of new revenue equipment and real estate may adversely impact financial results and cash flows. Investment in new revenue equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures. We may have difficulty in purchasing new trucks due to decreased supply and the price of such equipment may be adversely impacted by future regulations on newly manufactured diesel engines. The Company’s business model is also dependent on cost and availability of terminal facilities in key metropolitan areas. Shortages in the availability of real estate or delays in construction due to difficulties in obtaining permits may require significant additional investment in leasing, purchasing or building facilities, increase our operating expenses and/or prevent us from efficiently serving certain markets. In addition, we may not realize sufficient revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments. Effectiveness of Company-specific performance improvement initiatives. Operating performance improvement at Saia is dependent on the implementation and/or the continuation of various performance improvement initiatives. Our operating margin is still below several “best-in-class” competitors. There can be no assurance that Saia’s historical performance trend will be representative of future performance. Failure to achieve performance improvement initiatives could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We operate in a highly regulated and highly taxed industry, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other authorities relating to engine exhaust emissions, driver hours of service, security, ergonomics, as well as other unforeseen matters. Compliance with such regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. Various federal and state authorities impose significant operating taxes on the transportation industry, including fuel taxes, tolls, excise and other taxes. There can be no assurance such taxes will not substantially increase or that new forms of operating taxes will not be imposed on the industry. Within the Department of Transportation, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the FMCSA) issued in August 2005, amended rules on motor carrier driver hours of service, which limit the maximum number of hours a driver may be on duty between mandatory off-duty hours. These amended rules replaced those vacated by the courts in July 2004. The Company’s operations were adjusted to comply with these new rules, and while our base operations were not materially affected, we did experience deterioration in the cost, availability and reliability of purchased transportation. Revisions to these new rules, as a result of pending or future legal challenges, or any future requirements for on-board recorders, could further impact our operations, further tighten the market for qualified drivers, and put additional pressure on driver wages and purchased transportation costs. The Transportation Security Administration continues to focus on trailer security, driver identification and security clearance, and border crossing procedures. These and other safety and security measures such as rules for transportation of hazardous materials could increase the cost of operations, reduce the number of qualified drivers and disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries for our customers. 9 Table of Contents The Environmental Protection Agency has issued regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2010. A significant reduction in emissions occurred in 2007, which included both reductions in sulfur content of diesel fuel and further reductions in engine emissions. These regulations increased the cost of replacing and maintaining trucks, and increased fuel costs by reducing miles per gallon. These regulations have the potential to reduce availability of fuel and reduce productivity. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liabilities for violations of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located, and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will be adversely impacted if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following: • competition with many other transportation service providers of varying types including non-asset based logistics and freight brokerage companies, some of which have greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages; • transportation companies periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or achieve significant growth in our business; and • advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. The transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Businesses operating in the transportation industry are affected by risks that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. These factors include weather, excess capacity in the transportation industry, interest rates, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, and insurance premiums. Our results of operations may also be affected by seasonal factors. We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect profitability if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing. Our business is highly capital intensive. Our net capital expenditures from continuing operations for 2007 were approximately $89 million and we anticipate net capital expenditures in 2008 of approximately $56 million including $39 million for strategic real estate projects. We depend on cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and operating leases. If we are unable in the future to raise sufficient capital or borrow sufficient funds to make these purchases, our growth could be impacted and could potentially result in operating trucks and trailers for longer periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on operations. In addition, under our current unsecured credit facilities, we are subject to certain debt covenants and prepayment penalties. Those debt covenants limit our ability to pay dividends and require maintenance of certain maximum leverage, minimum interest coverage and minimum tangible net worth ratios, among other restrictions, that could limit availability of capital to meet our future growth. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce and cause volatility to our earnings. We are exposed to claims resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, group health care and workers’ compensation in amounts ranging from $250,000 to $2.0 million per claim. We also maintain insurance 10 Table of Contents with licensed insurance companies above these large deductible amounts. If the number or severity of future claims increases, insurance claim expenses might exceed historical levels, which could significantly reduce our earnings. Significant increases in insurance premiums could also impact financial results or cause us to raise our self-insured retentions. Furthermore, insurance companies as well as certain states require collateral in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds for the estimated exposure of claims within our self-insured retentions. Their estimate of our future exposure as well as external market conditions could influence the amount and cost of additional letters of credit required under our insurance programs and thereby reduce capital available for future growth. Employees of Saia are non-union. The ability of Saia to compete would be substantially impaired if operations were to become unionized. None of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. Saia has in the past been the subject of unionization efforts, which have been defeated. While Saia believes its current relationship with its employees is good, there can be no assurance that further unionization efforts will not occur in the future. The non-union status of Saia is a critical factor in its ability to compete in its respective markets. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely impacted. The future success of our business will continue to depend on our executive officers and certain other key employees, who with the principal exceptions of Mr. O’Dell and Mr. Albanese do not have employment agreements. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business, and any disruption to our technology infrastructure could harm our operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and compete effectively depends in part upon reliability of our technology network, including our ability to provide services that are important to our customers. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure, including those impacting our computer systems and web site, could adversely impact our customer service, revenues and result in increased costs. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully protect us from technology disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on us. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could have anti-takeover effects. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company. Such provisions include, for example, provisions classifying our Board of Directors, a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent, authorization of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in series, with the terms of each series to be fixed by the Board of Directors, and the provision of an advance notice procedure for shareholder proposals and nominations to the Board of Directors. These provisions could diminish the opportunities for a shareholder of Saia to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current fair market value, and may also inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts. In addition, Saia has a shareholder rights plan that allows the Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, to issue common stock and preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company. The issuance of common stock and preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, including resulting in the loss of voting control to others. We have no current plans to issue any such common or preferred stock. We are subject to various warranties, representations and indemnification provisions under the Stock Purchase Agreement for the sale of Jevic Transportation, Inc. The Company and its subsidiary are subject to various warranties, representations and indemnification provisions under the Stock Purchase Agreement. Adverse developments related to those warranties, representations and indemnification provisions could have a material adverse effect on us. We have received an indemnification claim related to the sale of Jevic Transportation arising from the fuel surcharge lawsuits. Given the nature and status of the claims, we cannot yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of potential loss, if any. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We intend in the future to make additional acquisitions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions. Each acquisition has numerous risks, including: 11 Table of Contents • difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with legal and financial contingencies, among other things. In the event that the integrations are not successfully completed there could be a material adverse effect on us. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. We face litigation concerning our fuel surcharge program and litigation regarding various alleged violations of state labor laws. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of such lawsuits could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance and could have a material adverse affect on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 