Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business We have a history of net losses and may never become profitable. Except for fiscal year 2013, we have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we had a net loss of approximately $1,758,000 and, as of March 31, 2014, our accumulated deficit was approximately $139.8 million, primarily due to our past losses. Our losses have resulted primarily from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from selling and marketing our products. We may continue to incur additional operating losses as we continue our research and development efforts, introduce new products and expand our sales and marketing activities. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or that we will be profitable in any future period. 10 Our revenues have been highly dependent on one product family, the iX104. Thus, any significant reduction of sales of this product family would materially harm our operating results. Because our revenues have been derived substantially from sales of our iX104 systems, we are highly dependent upon the continued market acceptance of the iX104 product family. We cannot assure you that the iX104 product family will continue to achieve its current level of acceptance in the marketplace. Any significant reduction of sales of the iX104 product family would materially harm our operating results. The lack of acceptance of our new products would materially harm our operating results. We have expended significant resources in developing new products, most recently the RangerX Pro. We cannot assure you that we will achieve any significant market acceptance of our new products. If we are unsuccessful in marketing these products, the lack of acceptance of our new products could materially harm our operating results. In fiscal year 2014, we derived more than 10% of our revenue from three different customers. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one or more of our major resellers or end-user customers with revenues from others in future periods, our revenues may decline and our growth would be limited. Historically, in any given year a single customer, either reseller or end-user customer, could account for more than 10% of our revenue. In fiscal year 2014, three resellers, Minnetronix, Inc., VT Miltope and Software House International, accounted for approximately 18%, 12% and 11% of our total revenue, respectively. Prosys Information Systems, Inc. and VT Miltope, accounted for approximately 28% and 15% of our total revenue, respectively, for fiscal year 2013. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one or more of our major resellers or end-user customers with revenues from others, our revenues may decline and our growth could be limited. We experience lengthy sales cycles for our products and the delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. The purchase of our rugged computer systems is often an enterprise-wide decision for prospective end-user customers, which requires us to engage in sales efforts over an extended period of time and provide a significant level of education to prospective end-user customers regarding the uses and benefits of such systems. As a result, our products generally have a lengthy sales cycle, ranging from several months to several years. Consequently, if forecasted sales from a specific end-user customer are not realized, we may not be able to generate revenue from alternative sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. The loss or delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. Moreover, to the extent we enter into and perform significant contracts earlier than expected, operating results for subsequent periods may fall below expectations. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of many factors and our quarterly operating results may not be indicative of results in any given year or future quarter. Our quarterly revenue, expenses, operating results, and gross profit margins may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Such fluctuation may result from our inability to replace revenue generated from large orders from one of our major resellers or end-user customers with revenue from other resellers and end-users, the lengthy sales cycle related to our products and delays in the delivery of products and components. Our quarterly revenue could also be materially affected in any period by a decline in the economic prospects of our customers or the economy in general, which could alter current or prospective customers’ spending priorities or budget cycles or extend our sales cycle for the period. Due to such factors, our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate and such results may not be indicative of our results in any given year or future quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indicator of our future results. We are currently dependent on contract manufacturers to manufacture our products and products under development and our reliance on contract manufacturers subjects us to significant operational risks, many of which would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers should they occur. We currently rely primarily on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our products. Our reliance involves a number of risks, including: • reduced management and control of component purchases; 11 • reduced control over delivery schedule and quality assurance; • reduced control over manufacturing yields; • lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices; • interruption of supplies from assemblers as a result of fire, natural calamity, strike or other significant events; and • misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our business is therefore dependent upon our contract manufacturers for their manufacturing capabilities. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, we purchased inventory and engineering services of approximately $23.5 million and $15.4 million, respectively, from our contract manufacturers. Our agreements with the contract manufacturers contain provisions that allows for termination for any reason. We cannot assure you that our contract manufacturers will continue to work with us, that they will be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, that the contract manufacturers have the required capacity to satisfy our manufacturing needs or that we can obtain additional or alternative manufacturers when and if needed. The availability of our contract manufacturers and the amount and timing of resources to be devoted by them to our activities is not within our control, and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter manufacturing problems that would materially harm our business. The loss of one of our contract manufacturers, a significant price increase, an interruption of supply or the inability to obtain additional or an alternative manufacturer when and if needed would impair our ability to deliver our products to our customers. We face competition from companies that have greater resources than we do and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our primary competitors in the mobile rugged computer market include Panasonic, Getac, Inc., Motion Inc., DRS Technologies and Mobile Demand in the tablet PC market and Panasonic in the notebook market. We also face competition from manufacturers of nonrugged mobile computers, such as Samsung, Inc., Dell, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Apple Computer, Inc., Sony and Toshiba, to the extent customers decide to purchase less expensive traditional computers for use in environments that we believe are better suited for mobile rugged computers. The principal competitive factors in our industry include: • product performance, features and reliability; • price; • name recognition; and • product availability and lead times. Most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, because of the higher volume of components that many of our competitors purchase from their suppliers, they are able to keep their costs of supply relatively low and, as a result, may be able to recognize higher margins on their product sales than we do. Many of our competitors may also have existing relationships with our contract manufacturers, the resellers who we use to sell our products, or with our potential customers. This competition may result in reduced prices, reduced margins and longer sales cycles for our products. The introduction of lower-priced personal computers, combined with the brand strength, extensive distribution channels and financial resources of the larger vendors, could cause us to lose market share and could reduce our margins on those personal computers we sell. If any of our larger competitors were to commit greater technical, sales, marketing and other resources to our markets, our ability to compete would be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors our sales would suffer and as a result our financial condition will be adversely affected. 12 If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property, our competitive position will be harmed. Our ability to compete is heavily affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We also enter, and plan to continue to enter, into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties with whom we contract, and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. The steps we take to protect our technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, time consuming and costly, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, the effect of either of which would harm our competitive position in the market. Others could claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, which may result in costly and time consuming litigation and could delay or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of our products. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We do not believe that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by us or our licensees with respect to current or future products. Claims for alleged infringement and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to defend, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could delay the development and commercialization of our products or reduce our margins. If we are unable to obtain a required license, our ability to sell or use certain products may be impaired. In addition, if we fail to obtain a license, or if the terms of the license are burdensome to us, our operations could be materially harmed. We are subject to risks by doing business outside of the United States that could impair our ability to grow our revenues. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2013, approximately 24% and 33%, respectively, of our revenue was comprised of sales made outside of the United States. In addition, our contract manufacturers are located outside the United States, in Taiwan. Our operations may be materially and adversely affected by many risks related to doing business outside of the United States, including: • increases in duty rates, exchange or price controls; • governmental currency controls; • import restrictions; • political, social and economic changes and disruptions; • in certain jurisdictions, reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; • difficulty in enforcing contracts or legal rights under foreign legal systems; and • product availability and lead times. The occurrence of any one these risks could impair our ability to grow our revenues. 13 If we are unable to retain key personnel we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our operations are dependent on the abilities, experience and efforts of a number of key personnel, including Philip S. Sassower, our chairman and chief executive officer, Mark Holleran, our president and chief operating officer, Michael J. Rapisand, our chief financial officer and corporate secretary, and Bryan J. Bell, our vice president of engineering. Should any of these persons or other key employees be unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. In addition, our success is highly dependent on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Because we have experienced operating losses, which resulted in a reduction in our workforce in the past, we may have a more difficult time in attracting and retaining the employees we need. Other than an employment agreement with our president and chief operating officer, our relationships with our key employees are “at will.” Also, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring skilled personnel could harm our relations with our customers and our ability to respond to technological change, which could prevent us from executing our business strategy. If we are unable to acquire key components or are unable to acquire them on favorable terms, our business will suffer. Some key components included in our line of products are currently available only from single or limited sources. In addition, some of the suppliers of these components are also supplying certain of our competitors. We cannot be certain that our suppliers will be able to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. We carry little inventory of our products or our product components and, as a result, rely on our suppliers to deliver our products and necessary components to us or our contract manufacturers in a timely manner based upon forecasts we provide. If any of our suppliers become unreliable in providing components, we may not be able to develop an alternative source of supply in a timely manner, which could hurt our ability to deliver our products to our customers. In addition, if we are unable to buy these components on a timely and a cost-efficient basis, we may not be able to deliver products to our customers, or the margins we receive for our products may suffer, which would negatively impact our future financial performance and, in turn, seriously harm our business. At various times, some of the key components for our products have been in short supply. Delays in receiving components would harm our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In addition, because we expect to rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to procure components in the longer term. If we receive a smaller allocation of components than is necessary to manufacture our products in quantities sufficient to meet our customers’ demand, those customers could choose to purchase competing products. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which could reduce our gross margins or cause us to lose sales. We provide, and will continue to provide, forecasts of our demand to our contract manufacturers prior to the scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have excess component inventory, which could increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturers may have an inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenue. In addition, lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. We may also experience shortages of components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products or increase the costs of our products. Our inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain any third-party license necessary to develop new products or product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must respond quickly and effectively to new technological developments, and the failure to do so could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to maintain our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our future success also depends on our ability to enhance existing hardware and systems and to respond to changing technological developments. If we are unable to successfully develop and bring to market new hardware and systems in a timely manner, our competitors’ technologies or services may render our products or services noncompetitive or obsolete. 14 Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock As of May 31, 2014, two of our stockholders, Philip S. Sassower and Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, and other entities controlled by Mr. Sassower, beneficially own approximately 27.4% of our common stock, and thus have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. One of our stockholders, Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, or Phoenix, which is co-managed by Philip S. Sassower, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Andrea Goren, one of our directors, beneficially owns approximately 21.1% of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Sassower, personally and through other entities controlled by him other than Phoenix, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 6.4% of our common stock. Thus, Phoenix and Mr. Sassower, together, beneficially own in the aggregate, approximately 27.4% of our common stock. Accordingly, Phoenix and Mr. Sassower have the ability to exercise significant influence over matters generally requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. The anti-takeover effect of certain of our charter provisions could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our authorized capital consists of preferred stock issuable in one or more series. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and determine the price, designation, rights, preferences, privileges, restrictions and conditions, including voting and dividend rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of additional preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible financings and acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting securities, which could deprive holders of our common stock of a premium that they might otherwise realize in connection with the acquisition of us by a third party. Volatility in the price for our common stock could adversely affect the long-term price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially. We believe that a variety of factors have caused and could in the future cause the stock price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; • developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and related litigation; • developments in our relationships with our third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; • developments in our relationships with our customers and/or suppliers; and 15 • general conditions in the global economy. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and the market for shares of smaller capitalization technology companies in particular, has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the market price of our common stock may decline. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to retain any future earnings to finance the future development and expansion of our business. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, operating and financial conditions and on such other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Under the terms of our financing agreement with our senior lender, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 