Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business We have a history of net losses, we anticipate additional losses and may never become profitable. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since our inception. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we incurred a net loss of approximately $5.6 million. In addition, as of March 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $121.6 million. Our losses have resulted primarily from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from selling and marketing our products. We expect to continue to incur additional operating losses at least through fiscal 2011 as we continue our research and development efforts, introduce new products and expand our sales and marketing activities. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or that we will be profitable in any future period. If we fail to obtain additional financing when needed, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of our future products or may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our other products. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. From our inception in 1996, we have financed our operations and met our capital expenditure requirements primarily from debt and equity financings totaling $103.2 million. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to complete the development and commercialization of our future products and to continue our research and development programs, including those to advance our current product line. As of March 31, 2010, our working capital was approximately $2.6 million and our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $0.4 million. We believe that cash flow from operations, together with advances under our financing agreement and, if necessary, financial support from an affiliate of Phoenix Venture Fund LLC (together with affiliates "Phoenix"), our significant stockholder, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operations through the balance of fiscal 2011. However, we may seek to access the public or private markets before such time, whenever conditions are favorable or appropriate, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. It is uncertain whether additional funding 10 Table of Contents will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. We have not entered into an agreement with Phoenix or any other potential investors regarding the terms of any additional financing. To the extent we raise additional funds by issuing equity our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may require us to agree to restrictive covenants that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. Due to the recent volatility of the U.S. equity markets, particularly for smaller technology companies, we may not have access to new capital when we need to raise additional funds. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed or on acceptable terms, we would likely be unable to carry out our business plan, and would have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of one or more of our products, the occurrence of which could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause our stock price to significantly decline. Since our revenues are highly dependent on one product family, any significant reduction of sales of this product family would materially harm our operating results. Because our revenues are derived substantially from sales of our iX104 systems, we are highly dependent upon the continued market acceptance of the iX104 product family. We cannot assure you that the iX104 product family will continue to achieve acceptance in the marketplace. Any significant reduction of sales of the iX104 product family would materially harm our operating results. In fiscal year 2010, more than 10% of our revenue was derived from one of our customers. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one of our major resellers or end-user customers with revenues from others in future periods, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth would be limited. Historically, in any given year a single customer, either reseller or end-user customer, could account for more than 10% of our revenue. In fiscal year 2010, one end-user customer, Dycom Industries, Inc., accounted for approximately 29% of our total revenue and in fiscal year 2009, one end-user customer, National Express Corporation, accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenue. If we are unable to replace revenues generated from one of our major resellers or end-user customers with revenues from others, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth would be limited. We experience lengthy sales cycles for our products and the delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. The purchase of an iX104 system is often an enterprise-wide decision for prospective end-user customers, which requires us to engage in sales efforts over an extended period of time and provide a significant level of education to prospective end-user customers regarding the uses and benefits of such systems. As a result, our products generally have a lengthy sales cycle ranging from several months to several years. Consequently, if forecasted sales from a specific end-user customer are not realized, we may not be able to generate revenue from alternative sources in time to compensate for the shortfall. The loss or delay of an expected large order could result in a significant unexpected revenue shortfall. Moreover, to the extent that significant contracts, are entered into and performed earlier than expected, operating results for subsequent periods may be adversely affected. We are currently dependent on Wistron to manufacture our products and products under development and our reliance subjects us to significant operational risks, any of which would impair our ability to deliver products to our customers should they occur. We currently rely primarily on Wistron for the manufacture of our products. Our reliance involves a number of risks, including: •reduced management and control of component purchases; •reduced control over delivery schedule and quality assurance; 11 Table of Contents •reduced control over manufacturing yields; •lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; •limited warranties on products supplied to us; •potential increases in prices; •interruption of supplies from assemblers as a result of fire, natural calamity, strike or other significant events; and •misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our business is therefore dependent upon Wistron for their manufacturing abilities. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, we purchased approximately $9.7 million and $11.6 million, respectively, from Wistron. Our agreement with Wistron contains a provision that allows for termination for any reason. We cannot assure you that Wistron will continue to work with us, that they will be able to meet our manufacturing needs in a satisfactory and timely manner, that Wistron has the required capacity to satisfy our manufacturing needs or that we can obtain additional or alternative manufacturers when and if needed. The availability of Wistron and the amount and timing of resources to be devoted by Wistron to our activities is not within our control, and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter manufacturing problems that would materially harm our business. The loss of Wistron, a significant price increase, an interruption of supply or the inability to obtain additional or an alternative manufacturer when and if needed would impair our ability to deliver our products to our customers. We face competition from companies that have greater resources than we do and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Many of our competitors, such as DRS Technologies, Inc. and General Dynamics Corp. in the tablet area and Panasonic in the notebook markets, have much greater financial, technical, research and development resources and production and marketing capabilities than we do. The principal competitive factors in our industry include: •product performance, features and reliability; •price; •name recognition; and •product availability and lead times. If we are unable to successfully compete with our competitors our sales would suffer and as a result our financial condition will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property, our competitive position will be harmed. Our ability to compete is heavily affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. We also enter, and plan to continue to enter, into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties with whom we contract, and control access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. The steps we take to protect our technology may be inadequate. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information which we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, time consuming and costly, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We 12 Table of Contents cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, the effect of either of which would harm our competitive position in the market. Others could claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, which may result in costly and time consuming litigation and could delay or otherwise impair the development and commercialization of our products. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We do not believe that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by us or our licensees with respect to current or future products. Claims for alleged infringement and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into a royalty or licensing agreement, any of which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. If we are unable to obtain a required license, our ability to sell or use certain products may be impaired. In addition, if we fail to obtain a license, or if the terms of the license are burdensome to us, our operations could be materially harmed. We are subject to risks by doing business outside of the United States which could impair our ability to grow our revenues. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, approximately 28% and 50%, respectively, of our revenue was comprised of sales made outside of the United States. Our operations may be materially and adversely affected by many risks related to doing business outside of the United States, including: •increases in duty rates, exchange or price controls; •governmental currency controls; •import restrictions; •political, social and economic changes and disruptions; •in certain jurisdictions, reduced protection for our intellectual property rights; and •difficulty in enforcing contracts or legal rights under foreign legal systems. The occurrence of any one these risks could impair our ability to grow our revenues. If we are unable to retain key personnel we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our operations are dependent on the abilities, experience and efforts of a number of key personnel, including Philip S. Sassower, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mark Holleran, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael J. Rapisand, our Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary, and Bryan Bell, our Vice President of Engineering. Should any of these persons or other key employees be unable or unwilling to continue in our employ, our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. In addition, our success is highly dependent on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Because we have experienced operating losses, we have recently implemented a reduction in workforce and because our common stock is not traded on a recognized national market, we may have a more difficult time in attracting and retaining the employees we need. Our relationships with most of our key employees are "at will." 13 Table of Contents Also, we do not have "key person" life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring skilled personnel could harm our relations with our customers and our ability to respond to technological change which would prevent us from executing our business strategy. If we are unable to acquire key components or are unable to acquire them on favorable terms, our business will suffer. Some key components included in our line of products are currently available only from single or limited sources. In addition, some of the suppliers of these components are also supplying certain of our competitors. We cannot be certain that our suppliers will be able to meet our demand for components in a timely and cost-effective manner. We expect to carry little inventory of some of our products and product components, and we will rely on our suppliers to deliver necessary components to us or our contract manufacturers in a timely manner based upon forecasts we provide. We may not be able to develop an alternative source of supply in a timely manner, which could hurt our ability to deliver our products to our customers. If we are unable to buy these components on a timely and a cost-efficient basis, we may not be able to deliver products to our customers, or the margins we receive for our products may suffer, which would negatively impact our future financial performance and, in turn, seriously harm our business. At various times, some of the key components for our products have been in short supply. Delays in receiving components would harm our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In addition, because we expect to rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to procure components in the longer term. If we receive a smaller allocation of components than is necessary to manufacture products in quantities sufficient to meet our customers' demand, those customers could choose to purchase competing products. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays, which could reduce our gross margins or cause us to lose sales. We provide, and will continue to provide, forecasts of our demand to our contract manufacturers prior to the scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may have excess component inventory, which could increase our costs. If we underestimate our requirements, our contract manufacturer may have an inadequate component inventory, which could interrupt the manufacturing of our products and result in delays in shipments and revenues. In addition, lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. We may also experience shortages of components from time to time, which also could delay the manufacturing of our products or increase the costs of our products. Our inability to obtain any third-party license required to develop new products and product enhancements could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we are required to license technology from third parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain any third-party license necessary to develop new products or product enhancements could require us to obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or at greater cost, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock Two of our stockholders, Philip S. Sassower and Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, beneficially own as of May 15, 2010 in the aggregate approximately 49.6% of our voting securities and thus have effective control over matters requiring stockholder approval. One of our stockholders, Phoenix Venture Fund LLC, is co-managed by Philip S. Sassower, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Andrea Goren, one of our directors, and beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 29.2% of our outstanding voting securities. In addition, Mr. Sassower, together with other entities controlled by him, beneficially own approximately 20.4%, in the aggregate, of our outstanding voting securities. Thus, Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower together control approximately 49.6% of our outstanding voting securities. Accordingly, Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower have the ability to exercise significant influence (and have effective control) over matters generally requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Some of the rights granted to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could prevent a potential acquirer from buying our company. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, which include Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower, have the right to block the company from consummating a merger, consolidation, sale of substantially all of its assets or liquidation. Phoenix Venture Fund and Mr. Sassower together control approximately 71.2% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock could prevent the consummation of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price for their shares. The anti-takeover effect of certain of our charter provisions could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Our authorized capital consists of preferred stock issuable in one or more series. Our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and determine the price, designation, rights, preferences, privileges, restrictions and conditions, including voting and dividend rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of additional preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting shares, which could deprive our holders of common stock of a premium that they might otherwise realize in connection with a proposed acquisition of our company. There may not be an active market for shares of our common stock, which may cause our shares to trade at a discount and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board market, which is viewed by most investors as a less desirable, and less liquid, marketplace. Trading in our common stock has been somewhat limited. There can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop and continue. As a result, you may find it more difficult to purchase, dispose of and obtain accurate quotations as to the value of our common stock. In addition, since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is also subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. Our common stock is also considered a penny stock under the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which defines a penny stock, generally, as any equity security not traded on an 15 Table of Contents exchange or quoted on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend our common stock to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they: •make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and •receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to potential investors. Many factors can adversely affect the price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially. We believe that a variety of factors have caused and could in the future cause the stock price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: •announcements of developments related to our business; •quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; •announcements of technological innovations; •new products or product enhancements introduced by us or by our competitors; •developments in patents and other intellectual property rights and litigation; •developments in our relationships with our third party manufacturers and/or strategic partners; •developments in our relationships with our customers and/or suppliers; and •general conditions in the economy worldwide. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the market for shares of small capitalization technology companies in particular, has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, which have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of affected companies. Any fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the market price of our common stock may decline. Dividends are not expected to be paid on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to retain any future earnings to finance the future development and expansion of our business. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, capital requirements, operating and financial conditions and on such other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock unless and until all accrued and unpaid dividends (which are paid in common stock) are paid on our shares of Series A, Series B, and Series C Preferred Stock. Furthermore, under the terms of our financing agreement with our senior lender, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends to holders of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 