Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our Company, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We anticipate that our revenue and operating results will fluctuate, which could adversely affect the enterprise value of our Company and our securities. Our operating results have fluctuated and will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: • general economic conditions and level of IT spending; • the loss or consolidation of one or more of our significant OEM suppliers or customers; • market acceptance, product mix and useful life of the products we distribute; • market acceptance, quality, pricing and availability of our services; • competitive conditions in our industry that impact our margins; • pricing, margin and other terms with our OEM suppliers; • decline in inventory value as a result of product obsolescence; 8 Table of Contents • variations in our levels of excess inventory and doubtful accounts, and changes in the terms of OEM supplier-sponsored programs, such as price protection and return rights; and • the impact of the business acquisitions we make. Although we attempt to control our expense levels, these levels are based, in part, on anticipated revenue. Therefore, we may not be able to control spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Our operating results also are affected by the seasonality of the IT products and services industry. We have historically experienced higher sales in our fourth fiscal quarter due to patterns in the capital budgeting, federal government spending and purchasing cycles of end-users. These patterns may not be repeated in subsequent periods. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of future performance. The results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. In future quarters, our operating results may be below our expectations or those of our public market analysts or investors, which would likely cause our share price to decline. For example, in March 2005, we announced that our revenue and net income for the three months ended February 28, 2005 were lower than our previously released guidance and, as a result, our share price subsequently declined substantially. We depend on a small number of OEMs to supply the IT products that we sell and the loss of, or a material change in, our business relationship with a major OEM supplier could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. Our future success is highly dependent on our relationships with a small number of OEM suppliers. Sales of Hewlett-Packard Company, or HP, products represented approximately 32% and 28% of our total revenue in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our OEM supplier agreements typically are short-term and may be terminated without cause upon short notice. For example, our agreement with HP will expire on May 31, 2009. The loss or deterioration of our relationships with a major OEM supplier, the authorization by OEM suppliers of additional distributors, the sale of products by OEM suppliers directly to our reseller customers and end-users, or our failure to establish relationships with new OEM suppliers or to expand the distribution and supply chain services that we provide OEM suppliers could adversely affect our business, financial position and operating results. For example in fiscal year 2008, International Business Machines Corporation, or IBM, terminated its approval to market IBM System X and related products and services. In addition, OEM suppliers may face liquidity or solvency issues that in turn could negatively affect our business and operating results. Our business is also highly dependent on the terms provided by our OEM suppliers. Generally, each OEM supplier has the ability to change the terms and conditions of its distribution agreements, such as reducing the amount of price protection and return rights or reducing the level of purchase discounts, rebates and marketing programs available to us. From time to time we may conduct business with a supplier without a formal agreement because the agreement has expired or otherwise. In such case, we are subject to additional risk with respect to products, warranties and returns, and other terms and conditions. If we are unable to pass the impact of these changes through to our reseller customers, our business, financial position and operating results could be adversely affected. Our gross margins are low, which magnifies the impact of variations in revenue, operating costs and bad debt on our operating results. As a result of significant price competition in the IT products and services industry, our gross margins are low, and we expect them to continue to be low in the future. Increased competition arising from industry consolidation and low demand for certain IT products may hinder our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. These low gross margins magnify the impact of variations in revenue, operating costs and bad debt on our operating results. A portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders that are forecasted with limited visibility of future demand. As a result, we may not 9 Table of Contents be able to reduce our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to mitigate any further reductions in gross margins in the future. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our business and operating results could suffer. We also receive purchase discounts and rebates from OEM suppliers based on various factors, including sales or purchase volume and breadth of customers. A decrease in net sales could negatively affect the level of volume rebates received from our OEM suppliers and thus, our gross margins. Because some rebates from OEM suppliers are based on percentage increases in sales of products, it may become more difficult for us to achieve the percentage growth in sales required for larger discounts due to the current size of our revenue base. A decrease or elimination of purchase discounts and rebates from our OEM suppliers would adversely affect our business and operating results. Because we sell on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our reseller and contract assembly services customers, which could decrease revenue and adversely affect our operating results. We sell to our reseller and contract assembly services customers on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, our sales are subject to demand variability by our reseller and contract assembly services customers. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers vary for a variety of reasons, including seasonal buying by end-users, the introduction of new hardware and software technologies and general economic conditions. Customers submitting a purchase order may cancel, reduce or delay their orders. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our reseller and contract assembly services customers, we may lose customers because we have an inadequate supply of products, or we may have excess inventory, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. The success of our contact center business is subject to the terms and conditions of our customer contracts. We provide contact center support services to our customers under contracts with provisions that could impact our profitability. Many of our contracts have short termination provisions which could cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results from period to period. For example, some contracts have performance related bonus or penalty provisions, whereby we could receive a bonus if we satisfy certain performance levels or have to pay a penalty for failing to do so. In addition, our customers may not guarantee a minimum call volume; however, we hire employees based on anticipated average call volumes. The reduction of call volume, loss of any customers, payment of penalties for failure to meet performance levels or our inability to terminate any unprofitable contracts may have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. We are subject to the risk that our inventory value may decline, and protective terms under our OEM supplier agreements may not adequately cover the decline in value, which in turn may harm our business, financial position and operating results. The IT products industry is subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory on hand to decline substantially in value or to rapidly become obsolete. Most of our OEM suppliers offer limited protection from the loss in value of inventory. For example, we can receive a credit from many OEM suppliers for products held in inventory in the event of a supplier price reduction. In addition, we have a limited right to return a certain percentage of purchases to most OEM suppliers. These policies are subject to time restrictions and do not protect us in all cases from declines in inventory value. In addition, our OEM suppliers may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their protection obligations to us. The decrease or elimination of price protection or the inability of our OEM suppliers to fulfill their protection obligations could lower our gross margins and cause us to record inventory write-downs. If we are unable to manage our inventory with our OEM suppliers with a high degree of precision, we may have insufficient product supplies or we may have excess inventory, resulting in inventory write-downs, either of which may harm our business, financial position and operating results. 10 Table of Contents We depend on OEM suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, and any supply shortages or delays could cause us to be unable to timely fulfill orders, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results. Our ability to obtain particular products in the required quantities and to fulfill reseller customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our OEM suppliers. We occasionally experience a supply shortage of certain products as a result of strong demand or problems experienced by our OEM suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of those products may increase, or the products may not be available at all. In addition, our OEM suppliers may decide to sell directly to resellers, or to substantially increase their existing distribution business, through other distributors. Accordingly, if we are not able to secure and maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our reseller customer orders on a timely basis, our business, financial position and operating results may be adversely affected. Because we conduct substantial operations in China, risks associated with economic, political and social events in China could negatively affect our business and operating results. A substantial portion of our IT systems operations, including our IT systems support and software development operations, is located in China. In addition, we also conduct general and administrative activities from our facility in China. As of November 30, 2008, we had 674 support personnel located in China. We expect to increase our operations in China in the future. Our operations in China are subject to a number of risks relating to China’s economic and political systems, including: • a government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese Renminbi; • extensive government regulation; • changing governmental policies relating to tax benefits available to foreign-owned businesses; • the telecommunications infrastructure; • a relatively uncertain legal system; and • uncertainties related to continued economic and social reform. Our IT systems are an important part of our global operations. Any significant interruption in service, whether resulting from any of the above uncertainties, natural disasters or otherwise, could result in delays in our inventory purchasing, errors in order fulfillment, reduced levels of customer service and other disruptions in operations, any of which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We may have higher than anticipated tax liabilities. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • changes in income before taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • changing tax laws, regulations, and/or interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; • effect of tax rate on purchase accounting for acquisitions; and • resolution of issues arising from tax audit or examinations and any related interest or penalties. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may not be 11 Table of Contents certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in various tax jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of such review or examination could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. The results from various tax examinations and audit may differ from the liabilities recorded in our financial statements and may adversely affect our financial results and cash flows. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions or investments in new markets and may encounter risks associated with these activities, which could harm our business and operating results. We have in the past pursued and in the future expect to pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses and assets in new markets, either within or outside the IT products industry, that complement or expand our existing business. Our acquisition strategy involves a number of risks, including: • difficulty in successfully integrating acquired operations, IT systems, customers, and OEM supplier relationships, products and businesses with our operations; • loss of key employees of acquired operations or inability to hire key employees necessary for our expansion; • diversion of our capital and management attention away from other business issues; • increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; • in the case of acquisitions that we may make outside of the United States, difficulty in operating in foreign countries and over significant geographical distances; and • other financial risks, such as potential liabilities of the businesses we acquire. Our growth may be limited and our competitive position may be harmed if we are unable to identify, finance, consummate and integrate future acquisitions. We believe that further expansion may be a prerequisite to our long-term success as some of our competitors in the IT product distribution industry have larger international operations, higher revenues and greater financial resources than us. We have incurred costs and encountered difficulties in the past in connection with our acquisitions and investments. For example, our operating margins were initially adversely affected as a result of our acquisition of the Redmond Group of Companies, or RGC. Prior to the acquisition, RGC was not a profitable business. After the acquisition, RGC initially caused a negative effect on our operating margins as we integrated RGC’s operations with our business to leverage synergies and consolidate redundant expenses. Future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, large write-offs, a decrease in future profitability, or future losses. The incurrence of debt in connection with any future acquisitions could restrict our ability to obtain working capital or other financing necessary to operate our business. Our recent and future acquisitions or investments may not be successful, and if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, our business and operating results could be harmed. Because of the capital-intensive nature of our business, we need continued access to capital, which, if not available to us or if not available on favorable terms, could harm our ability to operate or expand our business. Our business requires significant levels of capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors. If cash from available sources is insufficient, proceeds from our accounts receivable securitization and revolving credit programs are limited or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. In the event we are required, or elect, to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a significant downturn due to the credit conditions impacted by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity which may impact our results of operations. Our current and future indebtedness could adversely affect our operating results and severely limit our ability to plan for, or react 12 Table of Contents to, changes in our business or industry. We could also be limited by financial and other restrictive covenants in any securitization or credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends. Furthermore, the cost of securitization or debt financing could significantly increase in the future, making it cost prohibitive to securitize our accounts receivable or borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Any inability to raise additional capital when required could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The terms of our debt arrangements impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate which in turn could negatively affect our ability to respond to business and market conditions and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. As of November 30, 2008, we had approximately $551.9 million in outstanding short and long-term borrowings under term loans, convertible debt and lines of credit, excluding trade payables. The terms of one or more of the agreements under which this indebtedness was incurred may limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments; • consummate certain asset sales or acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • merge, consolidate or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, including minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratio as outlined in our senior secured revolving line of credit arrangement. Our inability to meet these ratios and tests could result in the acceleration of the repayment of the related debt, the termination of the facility or the increase in our effective cost of funds. As a result, our ability to operate may be restricted and our ability to respond to business and market conditions may be limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or we may experience a financial failure, which may hinder the repayment of our convertible senior notes. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Some of our credit facilities restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 13 Table of Contents If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our credit agreement could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which is likely to result in delays in the payment of our indebtedness and in the exercise of enforcement remedies related to our indebtedness. Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt and our ability to repay current or future indebtedness when due, depend in large part upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the convertible senior notes. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. A portion of our revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies and any termination or reduction in these financing arrangements could increase our financing costs and harm our business and operating results. A portion of our product distribution revenue is financed by floor plan financing companies. Floor plan financing companies are engaged by our customers to finance, or floor, the purchase of products from us. In exchange for a fee, we transfer the risk of loss on the sale of our products to the floor plan companies. We currently receive payment from these financing companies within approximately 15 to 30 days from the date of the sale, which allows our business to operate at much lower relative working capital levels than if such programs were not available. If these floor plan arrangements are terminated or substantially reduced, the need for more working capital and the increased financing cost could harm our business and operating results. We have significant credit exposure to our reseller customers, and negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss and negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position. We extend credit to our reseller customers for a significant portion of our sales to them. Resellers and retailers have a period of time, generally 30 days after the date of invoice, to make payment. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our reseller customers will not pay for the products they purchase. In addition, our Mexico subsidiary has entered into contracts with Mexican reseller customers, which involve extended payment terms and could expose us to additional collection risks. Our credit exposure risk may increase due to liquidity or solvency issues experienced by our resellers as a result of an economic downturn or a decrease in IT spending by end-users. If we are unable to collect payment for products we ship to our reseller customers or if our reseller customers are unable to timely pay for the products we ship to them, it will be more difficult or costly to utilize accounts receivable-based financing, which could negatively impact our cash flow and liquidity position. We may suffer adverse consequences from changing interest rates. Our borrowings and securitization arrangements are variable-rate obligations that could expose us to interest rate risks. At November 30, 2008, we had approximately $408.2 million in such variable-rate obligations. If interest rates increase, our interest expense would increase, which would negatively affect our net income. An increase in interest rates may increase our future borrowing costs and restrict our access to capital. Additionally, current market conditions, subprime mortgage crisis, and overall credit conditions could limit our availability of capital, which could cause increases in interest margin spreads over underlying indices, effectively increasing the cost of our borrowing. While some of our credit facilities have contractually negotiated spreads, terms such as these are subject to ongoing negotiations. 14 Table of Contents We experienced theft of product from our warehouses and future thefts could harm our operating results. From time to time we have experienced incidents of theft at various facilities. These types of incidents may make it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain theft coverage in the future. Also, incidents of theft may re-occur for which we may not be fully insured. We are dependent on a variety of IT and telecommunications systems, and any failure of these systems could adversely impact our business and operating results. We depend on IT and telecommunications systems for our operations. These systems support a variety of functions including inventory management, order processing, shipping, shipment tracking, billing, contact center support and web hosting. Failures or significant downtime of our IT or telecommunications systems could prevent us from taking customer orders, printing product pick-lists, shipping products, billing customers, handling call volume or providing web hosting. Sales also may be affected if our reseller customers are unable to access our pricing and product availability information. We also rely on the Internet, and in particular electronic data interchange, or EDI, for a large portion of our orders and information exchanges with our OEM suppliers and reseller customers. The Internet and individual websites have experienced a number of disruptions and slowdowns, some of which were caused by organized attacks. In addition, some websites have experienced security breakdowns. If we were to experience a security breakdown, disruption or breach that compromised sensitive information, it could harm our relationship with our OEM suppliers and reseller customers. Disruption of our website or the Internet in general could impair our order processing or more generally prevent our OEM suppliers and reseller customers from accessing information. Our contact call center is dependent upon telephone and data services provided by third party telecommunications service vendors and our IT and telecommunications system. Any significant increase in our IT and telecommunications costs or temporary or permanent loss of our IT or telecommunications systems could harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. We rely on independent shipping companies for delivery of products, and price increases or service interruptions from these carriers could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely almost entirely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as FedEx and UPS, for the delivery of our products from OEM suppliers and delivery of products to reseller and retail customers. Freight and shipping charges can have a significant impact on our gross margin. As a result, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel cost or general price increases will have an immediate adverse effect on our margins, unless we are able to pass the increased charges to our reseller customers or renegotiate terms with our OEM suppliers. In addition, in the past, UPS has experienced work stoppages due to labor negotiations with management. An increase in freight or shipping charges, the termination of our arrangements with one or more of these independent shipping companies, the failure or inability of one or more of these independent shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changes in foreign exchange rates and limitations on the convertibility of foreign currencies could adversely affect our business and operating results. In the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, approximately 21% and 22%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated outside the United States. Most of our international revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. We presently have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will make it more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars to purchase 15 Table of Contents inventory or pay expenses with foreign currencies. This could have a negative impact to us if revenue related to these purchases is transacted in U.S. dollars. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency and make our products, which are usually purchased by us with U.S. dollars, relatively more expensive than products manufactured locally. We currently conduct only limited hedging activities, which involve the use of currency forward contracts. Hedging foreign currencies can be risky. There is also additional risk if the currency is not freely or actively traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi and Philippines Peso, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit our ability to hedge or to otherwise react to rapid foreign currency devaluations. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. Because of the experience of our key personnel in the IT service industry and their technological expertise, if we were to lose any of our key personnel, it could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We operate in the highly competitive IT service industry. We are dependent in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key senior executives and other technical experts and personnel. Except for Robert Huang, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Kevin Murai, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and James Estill, SYNNEX Canada Limited’s President and Chief Executive Officer, our employees and executives generally do not have employment agreements. Furthermore, we do not carry “key person” insurance coverage for any of our key executives. We compete for qualified senior management and technical personnel. The loss of, or inability to hire, key executives or qualified employees could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We may become involved in intellectual property or other disputes that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain a license, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may from time to time receive notifications alleging infringements of intellectual property rights allegedly held by others relating to our business or the products we sell or assemble for our OEM suppliers and others. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have an adverse effect on our business. Although we generally have various levels of indemnification protection from our OEM suppliers and contract assembly services customers, in many cases any indemnification to which we may be entitled is subject to maximum limits or other restrictions. In addition, we have developed proprietary IT systems that play an important role in our business. If any infringement claim is successful against us and if indemnification is not available or sufficient, we may be required to pay substantial damages or we may need to seek and obtain a license of the other party’s intellectual property rights. We may be unable to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We are from time to time involved in other litigation in the ordinary course of business. We may not be successful in defending these or other claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation could result in substantial expense and could divert the efforts of our management. We have significant operations concentrated in Northern California, South Carolina, Ontario, Beijing, and the Philippines and any disruption in the operations of our facilities could harm our business and operating results. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We have significant operations in our facilities located in Fremont, California, Greenville, South Carolina, Ontario, Canada, Beijing, China and Manila, Cagayan De Oro and Davao Philippines. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our facilities, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures, break-ins, destruction or damage to the facilities as a result of a natural disaster, fire or any other reason, could harm our operating results. In 16 Table of Contents addition, our Philippines operation is at greater risk due to adverse weather conditions, such as typhoons. We currently do not have a formal disaster recovery plan and may not have sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. Global health, economic, political and social conditions may harm our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. Worldwide economic conditions have recently experienced a significant downturn due to the credit conditions impacted by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity which may impact our results of operations. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, geopolitical and social turmoil or epidemics and other similar outbreaks, in many parts of the world could prevent or hinder our ability to do business, increase our costs and negatively affect our stock price. For example, increased instability may adversely impact the desire of employees and customers to travel, the reliability and cost of transportation and our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates and may require us to incur increased costs for security measures for our domestic and international operations. These uncertainties make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately plan future business activities. More generally, these geopolitical social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorism, acts of war and similar events. Part of our business is conducted outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. We have international operations in Canada, China, Mexico, Japan, the Philippines and the United Kingdom. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, approximately 21% and 22%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated outside the United States. For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, approximately 18% and 19%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated in Canada. No country other than the U.S. and Canada accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. Our international operations are subject to risks, including: • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • changes in import/export duties; • trade restrictions; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • difficulties in collecting of accounts receivable on a timely basis or at all; • taxes; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. We may continue to expand internationally to respond to competitive pressure and customer and market requirements. Establishing operations in any other foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. In addition, until a payment history is established over time with customers in a new geography or region, the likelihood of collecting accounts receivable generated by such operations could be less than our expectations. As a result, there is a greater risk that reserves set with respect to the collection of such accounts receivable may be inadequate. In addition, our Mexico subsidiary has entered into contracts with Mexican reseller customers, which involve extended payment terms and could expose us to additional collection risks. Furthermore, if our international expansion efforts in any foreign country are unsuccessful, we may decide to cease operations, which would likely cause us to incur additional expenses and loss. 17 Table of Contents In addition, changes in policies or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. Furthermore, any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade or investment could adversely affect our business. If we fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer. Our recent investments in our contact center business could adversely affect our operating results as a result of operation execution risks related to managing and communicating with remote resources, technologies, customer satisfaction and employee turnover. Our contact center business in the Philippines may be adversely impacted if we are unable to manage and communicate with these remote resources. Service quality may be placed at risk and our ability to optimize our resources may be more complicated if we are unable to manage our resources remotely. Contact centers use a wide variety of different technologies to allow them to manage a large volume of work. These technologies ensure that employees are kept productive. Any failure in technology may impact the business adversely. The success of our contact center business primarily depends on performance of our employees and resulting customer satisfaction. Any increase in average waiting time or handling time or lack of promptness or technical expertise of our employees will directly impact customer satisfaction. Any adverse customer satisfaction may impact the overall business. Generally, the employee turnover rate in the contact center business and the risk of losing experienced employees to competitors are high. Higher turnover rates increase recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. If we are unable to successfully manage our contact centers, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we may not realize the benefits of our recent acquisitions. Our investment in HiChina Web Solutions could be adversely affected by strong competition, loss of market share and pricing pressure in the market for domain name registration and web hosting services, which we expect will continue to intensify. Our investment in HiChina Web Solutions in April 2007 could be adversely impacted due to the market for domain name and web hosting related Internet services, which is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving as participants strive to retain their current customer base and attract new customers and improve their competitive position. We may face continued pricing pressure in order to remain competitive, which would adversely impact our revenues and profitability and result in a loss of market share. Further, we may lose market share if we are unable to keep pace with these evolving markets. While we anticipate that the number of new, renewed and transferred-in domain registrations will incrementally increase, volatility in the market could result in our customers turning to other registrars, thereby impairing growth in the number of domains under our management and our ability to sell multiple services to such customers. Risks Related to Our Relationship with MiTAC International Corporation As of November 30, 2008, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owned approximately 41% of our common stock and this concentration of ownership could allow them to control all matters requiring stockholder approval and could delay or prevent a change in control of SYNNEX. As of November 30, 2008, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owned approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, MiTAC International Corporation, or MiTAC International and its affiliates owned approximately 40% of our common stock. In addition, MiTAC International’s interests and ours may increasingly conflict. For example, we rely on MiTAC International for certain manufacturing and supply services and for relationships with certain key customers. As a result of a decrease in their ownership in us, we may lose these services and relationships, which 18 Table of Contents may lead to increased costs to replace the lost services and the loss of certain key customers. We cannot predict the likelihood that we may incur increased costs or lose customers if MiTAC International’s ownership percentage of us decreases in the future. We rely on MiTAC International for manufacturing and contract assembly services and supply components and the loss of these services or components would require us to seek alternate providers that may charge us more for their services and components. We rely on MiTAC International to manufacture and supply subassemblies and components for some of our contract assembly services customers, including Sun Microsystems, our primary contract assembly services customer, and our reliance on MiTAC International may increase in the future. Our relationship with MiTAC International has been informal and is not governed by long-term commitments or arrangements with respect to pricing terms, revenue or capacity commitments. Accordingly, we negotiate manufacturing, pricing and other material terms on a project-by-project basis. As MiTAC’s ownership interest in us decreases, MiTAC’s interest in the success of our business and operations may decrease as well. In the event MiTAC International no longer provides such services and components to us, we would need to find an alternative source for these services and components. We may be unable to obtain alternative services and components on similar terms, which may in turn increase our contract assembly costs. In addition, we may not find manufacturers with sufficient capacity, which may in turn lead to shortages in our product supplies. Increased costs and products shortages could harm our business and operating results. Our business relationship with MiTAC International has been and will continue to be negotiated as related parties and therefore may not be the result of arms’-length negotiations between independent parties. Our relationship, including pricing and other material terms, with our shared customers or with MiTAC International, may or may not be as advantageous to us as the terms we could have negotiated with unaffiliated third parties. We have a joint sales and marketing agreement with MiTAC International, pursuant to which both parties agree to use their commercially reasonable efforts to promote the other party’s service offerings to their respective customers who are interested in such product offerings. To date, there has not been a significant amount of sales attributable to the joint marketing agreement. This agreement does not provide for the terms upon which we negotiate manufacturing and pricing terms. These negotiations have been on a case-by-case basis. The agreement has an initial term of one year and automatically renews for subsequent one-year terms unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal within 90 days of the end of any renewal term. The agreement may also be terminated without cause either by the mutual written agreement of both parties or by either party without cause upon 90 days prior written notice of termination to the other party. Either party may immediately terminate the agreement by providing written notice (a) of the other party’s material breach of any provision of the agreement and failure to cure within 30 days, or (b) if the other party becomes bankrupt or insolvent. In addition, we are party to a general agreement with MiTAC International and Sun Microsystems under which we work with MiTAC International to provide contract assembly services to Sun Microsystems. Some of our customer relationships evolved from relationships between such customers and MiTAC International and the loss of such relationships could harm our business and operating results. Our relationship with Sun Microsystems and some of our other customers evolved from relationships that were initiated by MiTAC International. Our relationship with Sun Microsystems is a joint relationship with MiTAC International and us, and the future success of our relationship with Sun Microsystems depends on MiTAC International continuing to work with us to service Sun Microsystems’ requirements. The original agreement between Sun Microsystems and MiTAC International was signed on August 28, 1999 and we became a party to the agreement on February 12, 2002. On May 16, 2007, we entered into a new Master Supply Agreement to be effective as of May 1, 2007 with Sun Microsystems and MiTAC International. Pursuant to this new agreement, the terms for the manufacture and purchase of each particular product awarded by Sun Microsystems are individually negotiated and if agreed upon by the parties, such terms are included in a product award letter. There is no minimum level of commitment required by any of the parties under this agreement. As 19 Table of Contents under the prior agreement, we negotiate manufacturing, pricing and other material terms, on a project-by-project basis with MiTAC International and Sun Microsystems for a given project. All of our contract assembly services to Sun Microsystems are covered by this agreement. This agreement has a term of three years and is automatically renewed for one-year periods until terminated in accordance with its terms. Any party may terminate this agreement with written notice if one of the other parties materially breaches any provision of the agreement and the breach is incapable of being cured or is not cured within 30 days. This agreement may also be terminated on written notice if one of the other parties becomes bankrupt or insolvent. If we are unable to maintain our relationship with MiTAC International, our relationship with Sun Microsystems could suffer and we could lose other customer relationships or referrals, which in turn could harm our business, financial position and operating results. There could be potential conflicts of interest between us and MiTAC International and its affiliates, which could impact our business and operating results. MiTAC International’s and its affiliates’ continuing beneficial ownership of our common stock could create conflicts of interest with respect to a variety of matters, such as potential acquisitions, competition, issuance or disposition of securities, election of directors, payment of dividends and other business matters. Similar risks could exist as a result of Matthew Miau’s positions as our Chairman Emeritus, the Chairman of MiTAC International and as a director or officer of MiTAC International’s affiliates. In fiscal year 2008, Mr. Miau received a $225,000 retainer from us and was granted a restricted stock award of 2,000 shares of our common stock for his services as Chairman of the Board based primarily upon his non-executive back-up role to Robert Huang, our then President and Chief Executive Officer. Compensation payable to Mr. Miau was based upon approval of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, which is composed of disinterested members of the Board. For fiscal year 2009, Mr. Miau will receive the same compensation as other independent directors. Mr. Miau’s compensation is based upon the approval of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. We also have adopted a policy requiring material transactions in which any of our directors has a potential conflict of interest to be approved by our Audit Committee, which is also composed of disinterested members of the Board. Synnex Technology International Corp., or Synnex Technology International, a publicly-traded company based in Taiwan and affiliated with MiTAC International, currently provides distribution and fulfillment services to various markets in Asia and Australia, and is also a potential competitor of ours. As of November 30, 2008, MiTAC Incorporated, a privately-held company based in Taiwan and a separate entity from MiTAC International, directly and indirectly owned approximately 14.9% of Synnex Technology International and approximately 8.0% of MiTAC International. As of November 30, 2008, MiTAC International directly and indirectly owned 0.3% of Synnex Technology International and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owned approximately 0.3% of MiTAC International. In addition, MiTAC International directly and indirectly owned approximately 8.7% of MiTAC Incorporated and Synnex Technology International directly and indirectly owned approximately 14.0% of MiTAC Incorporated as of November 30, 2008. Synnex Technology International indirectly through its ownership of Peer Developments Limited owned approximately 15.6% of our outstanding common stock as of November 30, 2008. Neither MiTAC International, nor Synnex Technology International is restricted from competing with us. In the future, we may increasingly compete with Synnex Technology International, particularly if our business in Asia expands or Synnex Technology International expands its business into geographies or customers we serve. Although Synnex Technology International is a separate entity from us, it is possible that there will be confusion as a result of the similarity of our names. Moreover, we cannot limit or control the use of the Synnex name by Synnex Technology International in certain geographies and our use of the Synnex name may be restricted as a result of registration of the name by Synnex Technology International or the prior use in jurisdictions where it currently operates. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Volatility in the IT industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The IT industry in which we operate has experienced decreases in demand. Softening demand for our products and services caused by an ongoing economic downturn and over-capacity may impact our revenue, as well the salability of inventory and collection of reseller customer accounts receivable. While in the past we may have benefited from consolidation in our industry resulting from delays or reductions in IT spending in particular, and economic weakness in general, any such volatility in the IT industry could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business may be adversely affected by some OEM suppliers’ strategies to increase their direct sales, which in turn could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Consolidation of OEM suppliers has resulted in fewer sources for some of the products that we distribute. This consolidation has also resulted in larger OEM suppliers that have significant operating and financial resources. Some OEM suppliers, including some of the leading OEM suppliers that we service, have been selling a greater volume of products directly to end-users, thereby limiting our business opportunities. If large OEM suppliers continue the trend to sell directly to our resellers, rather than use us as the distributor of their products, our business and operating results will suffer. OEMs are limiting the number of supply chain service providers with which they do business, which in turn could negatively impact our business and operating results. Currently, there is a trend towards reducing the number of authorized distributors used by OEM suppliers. As a smaller market participant in the IT product industries, than some of our competitors, we may be more susceptible to loss of business from further reductions of authorized distributors or contract assemblers by IT product OEMs. For example, the termination of our contract by HP with us would have a significant negative effect on our revenue and operating results. A determination by any of our primary OEMs to consolidate their business with other distributors or contract assemblers would negatively affect our business and operating results. For example, IBM recently consolidated its business with distributors, including SYNNEX, and, as a result, we no longer distribute certain IBM products and services. The IT industry is subject to rapidly changing technologies and process developments, and we may not be able to adequately adjust our business to these changes, which in turn would harm our business and operating results. Dynamic changes in the IT industry, including the consolidation of OEM suppliers and reductions in the number of authorized distributors used by OEM suppliers, have resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and have placed, and continue to place, a significant strain upon our management, operating and financial systems and other resources. We may be unable to successfully respond to and manage our business in light of industry developments and trends. Also crucial to our success in managing our operations will be our ability to achieve additional economies of scale. Our failure to achieve these additional economies of scale or to respond to changes in the IT industry could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to intense competition in the IT industry, both in the United States and internationally, and if we fail to compete successfully, we will be unable to gain or retain market share. We operate in a highly competitive environment, both in the United States and internationally. The IT product distribution, global business and contract assembly services industries are characterized by intense competition, based primarily on product availability, credit availability, price, speed of delivery, ability to tailor specific solutions to customer needs, quality and depth of product lines, pre-sale and post-sale technical support, 21 Table of Contents flexibility and timely response to design changes, and technological capabilities, service and support. We compete with a variety of regional, national and international IT product distributors and contract manufacturers and assemblers. In some instances, we also compete with our own customers, our own OEM suppliers and MiTAC International. Our primary competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial, operating, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Some of our competitors may have broader geographic breadth and range of services than us and may have more developed relationships with their existing customers. We may lose market share in the United States or in international markets, or may be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to the actions of our competitors and thereby experience a reduction in our gross margins. In addition, in our contact center business, we also face competition from our customers. For example, some of our customers may have internal capability and resources to provide their own call centers. Furthermore, pricing pressures and quality of services could impact our business adversely. Our ability to provide a high quality of service is dependent on our ability to retain and properly train our employees and to continue investing in our infrastructure, including IT and telecommunications systems. We may initiate other business activities, including the broadening of our supply chain capabilities, and may face competition from companies with more experience in those new areas. In addition, as we enter new areas of business, we may also encounter increased competition from current competitors or from new competitors, including some who may once have been our OEM suppliers or reseller customers. Increased competition and negative reaction from our OEM suppliers or reseller customers resulting from our expansion into new business areas may harm our business and operating results. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations and New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and corporate governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our management’s required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2008, and we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to continue to comply with these requirements. In the past, however, 22 Table of Contents our internal controls have not eliminated all error. For example, in fiscal year 2007, we made a reclassification adjustment to our Consolidated Financial Statements and we were unable to timely file a Form 8-K relating to an acquisition. We expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that one of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions and our reputation may be adversely affected and the market price of our stock could decline. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We are subject to rules and regulations as a public company that will increase our administration costs which, in turn, could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. In addition to final rules and rule proposals already made by the SEC, the NYSE has adopted revisions to its requirements for companies that are NYSE-listed. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and made some activities more time consuming or costly. These rules and regulations could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, and qualified executive officers. New accounting treatment for cash settled convertible debt instruments like the convertible senior notes would likely cause our reported interest expense on our convertible senior notes to increase. FASB recently adopted FASB Staff Position No. Accounting Principles Board 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement),” reflecting new rules that change the accounting for certain convertible debt instruments, including our convertible notes. Under these new rules, an issuer of a convertible debt instrument that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion is be required to account for the liability and equity components of the instrument separately. The debt component is recorded at an estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature, and the difference between the proceeds for the convertible debt and the amount reflected as a debt liability is recorded as additional paid-in capital. As a result, the debt is treated as if it had been issued at a discount and is subsequently accreted to its par value over its expected life, with a rate of interest that reflects the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The resulting interest expense would likely be significantly higher than the actual cash interest expense payable on the instrument. The new rules are effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2008 and is applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the new rules and cannot quantify the impact at this time. However, we expect to have higher interest expense starting in 2010 due to the non-cash interest expense accretion. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 