Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements We need to generate higher product sales to become and remain profitable. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends upon our ability to generate higher product sales. Our ability to generate significantly higher revenue depends upon a number of factors, including: • achievement of broad acceptance for our current products or future products that we may commercialize; • achievement of U.S. regulatory clearance or approval for additional products; and • successful sales, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. Sales of our products and development activities generated only $4.0 million, $9.9 million and $7.6 million of revenue for fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We do not anticipate that we will generate significantly higher product sales for the foreseeable future. Sales of our C-Port and PAS-Port systems have not met the levels that we had anticipated, and to date our systems have had limited commercial adoption. Failure to obtain broader commercial adoption of our systems will continue to negatively impact our financial results and financial position and may require us to delay, further reduce the scope of or eliminate our commercialization efforts with respect to one or more of our products or one or more of our research and development projects. We need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts and could cause us to cease operations. Our development efforts have consumed substantial capital to date. Including the cash received in August 2010 in connection with the License Agreement with Intuitive Surgical and related equity investment, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with the cash that we expect to generate from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs to enable us to conduct our business substantially as currently conducted through September 30, 2011. We have based our estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, including assumptions with respect to the level of revenue from product sales, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. While our cash resources would permit us to continue through September 30, 2011, we would need to further reduce expenses in advance of that date in the event that we are unable to complete a financing, strategic or commercial transaction to ensure that we have sufficient capital to meet our obligations and continue on a path designed to create and preserve stockholder value. The sufficiency of our current cash resources and our need for additional capital, and the timing thereof, will depend upon numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the extent of our ongoing research and development programs and related costs, including costs related to the development of the Cardica Microcutter ES8 and additional potential products in our anticipated microcutter product line; • our ability to enter into additional license, development and/or collaboration agreements with respect to our technology, and the terms thereof; • market acceptance and adoption of our current products or future products that we may commercialize; • our level of revenue; 24 Table of Contents • costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; • costs and timing of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals for our products and potential additional products; • securing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights and the costs thereof; and • the effects of competing technological and market developments. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate sufficient product sales to achieve profitability for the foreseeable future, if at all, we need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. To raise capital, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain a credit facility or enter into product development, license or distribution agreements with third parties or divest one or more of our commercialized products or products in development. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in significant dilution to our stockholders, particularly in light of the prices at which our common stock has been recently trading. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Any product development, licensing, distribution or sale agreements that we enter into may require us to relinquish valuable rights, including with respect to commercialized products or products in development that we would otherwise seek to commercialize or develop ourselves. We may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funding or enter into a strategic transaction in a timely manner. Our need to raise capital may require us to accept terms that may harm our business or be disadvantageous to our current stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or revenues from product sales do not increase, we would be required to further reduce our workforce, delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate our commercialization efforts with respect to one or more of our products or one or more of our research and development programs in advance of September 30, 2011 to ensure that we have sufficient capital to meet our obligations and continue on a path designed to create and preserve stockholder value. Failure to raise additional capital may result in our ceasing to be publicly traded or ceasing operations. We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We have incurred net losses since our inception in October 1997. As of June 30, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $120.3 million. We expect to incur substantial additional losses until we can achieve significant commercial sales of our products, which depend upon a number of factors, including increased commercial sales of our C-Port and PAS-Port systems in the United States and receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and market adoption of our additional proposed products in the United States. We commenced commercial sales of the C-Port system in Europe in 2004 and in the United States in 2006 and of the PAS-Port system in Europe in 2003, in Japan in 2004 and in the United States in September 2008. Our cost of product sales was 98% and 79% of our net product sales for fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect high cost of product sales to continue for the foreseeable future. If, over the long term, we are unable to reduce our cost of producing goods and expenses relative to our net revenue, we may not achieve profitability even if we are able to generate significant sales of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Creditors may have rights to our assets that are senior to our stockholders. On August 17, 2010, we paid off the remaining $1.4 million principal balance of our note payable to Century Medical, Inc. and, therefore, no longer have any outstanding debt obligations. However, future arrangements with creditors may allow these creditors to liquidate our assets, which may include our intellectual property rights, if we are in default or breach of our debt obligations for a continued period of time. The proceeds of any sale or liquidation of our assets under these circumstances would be applied first to any of our debt obligations that would have priority over any of our capital stock. After satisfaction of our debt obligations, we may have little or no proceeds left under these circumstances to distribute to the holders of our capital stock. 25 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenue we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the extent of our ongoing research and development programs and related costs, including costs related to the development of the Cardica Microcutter ES8 and additional potential products; • our ability to enter into additional license, development and/or collaboration agreements with respect to our technology, and the terms thereof; • market acceptance and adoption of our products; • our level of revenue; • costs associated with our sales and marketing initiatives and manufacturing activities; • costs and timing of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals for our products and potential additional products; • securing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights and the costs thereof; and • the effects of competing technological and market developments. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent upon the success of our current products to generate revenue in the near term, and we have U.S. regulatory clearance for our C-Port and PAS-Port systems only. We cannot be certain that the C-Port and PAS-Port systems can be successfully commercialized in the United States. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our products in the United States, our ability to generate higher revenue will be significantly delayed or halted, and our business will be harmed. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our current commercial products, the C-Port systems and the PAS-Port system. If we are not successful in commercializing our C-Port and PAS-Port systems, we may never generate substantial revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected, and we may be forced to cease operations. We commenced sales of our C-Port xA system in December 2006 (after introduction of our original C-Port system in January 2006), our C-Port Flex A in April 2007 and our C-Port X-CHANGE in December 2007. We commenced U.S. sales of our PAS-Port system in September 2008. We anticipate that our ability to increase our revenue significantly will depend on the continued adoption of our current PAS-Port and C-Port systems in the United States and commercialization of additional potential products, including the Cardica Microcutter ES8 in particular. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our product portfolio, and our failure to do so could cause our business and prospects to suffer. We intend to use our knowledge and expertise in anastomotic technologies to discover, develop and commercialize new applications in additional markets. In particular, we are developing the Cardica Microcutter ES8, an endoscopic microcutter intended for use by general, thoracic, gynecologic, bariatric and urologic surgeons, and other potential products in our anticipated microcutter product line. We have not yet commenced human testing of this device. Significant additional research and development and financial resources will be required to develop the Cardica Microcutter ES8 into a commercially viable product and to obtain necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize the device. We cannot assure you that our development efforts will be successful or that they will be completed within our publicly stated anticipated timelines, and we may never be successful in developing a viable product for the markets intended to be addressed by the Cardica Microcutter ES8 or other potential microcutter products. Our failure to successfully develop the Cardica Microcutter ES8 and/or other microcutter products would have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and ability to raise additional capital. 26 Table of Contents Our products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance, and a lack of market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, our anastomoses products have not gained, and we cannot assure you that our anastomoses products or any other products that we may develop will gain, any significant degree of market acceptance among physicians or patients. We believe that recommendations by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of our products; however, we cannot assure you that significant recommendations will be obtained. Physicians will not recommend our products unless they conclude, based on clinical data and other factors, that the products represent a safe and acceptable alternative to other available options. In particular, physicians may elect not to recommend using our anastomoses products in surgical procedures until such time, if ever, as we successfully demonstrate with long-term data that our products result in patency rates comparable to or better than those achieved with hand-sewn anastomoses, and we resolve any technical limitations that may arise. Assuming that we receive FDA clearance for one or more of our microcutter products, a number of factors will influence our ability to gain clinical adoption. In many surgical specialties, the use of laparoscopic and open surgical stapling devices is routine in clinical practice and an accepted standard of care. Two large companies, Johnson & Johnson and Covidien, dominate the market for surgical stapling devices. For our products to be clinically adopted, they must show benefits that are significant enough for surgeons to communicate their preference and to overcome any constraints on their hospitals’ ability to purchase competing products, such as purchasing contracts, to buy one of our stapling products to replace a competing device. In addition to this obstacle, our microcutter products must demonstrate the degree of reliability that surgeons have experienced with products that they have been using for years. Market acceptance of our products also depends on our ability to demonstrate consistent quality and safety of our products. Our anticipated initial lack of human clinical data with respect to the use of any microcutter products that we may commercialize is likely to negatively impact the rate and extent of clinical adoption of the products. Any future recalls may impact physicians’ and hospitals’ perception of our products. Widespread use of our products will require the training of numerous physicians, and the time required to complete training could result in a delay or dampening of market acceptance. Even if the safety and efficacy of our products is established, physicians may elect not to use our products for a number of reasons beyond our control, including inadequate or no reimbursement from health care payors, physicians’ reluctance to use products that have not been proven through time in the market, the introduction of competing devices by our competitors and pricing for our products. Failure of our products to achieve any significant market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our PAS-Port and C-Port systems, as well as our other future products, may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even though the current generations of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems have received U.S. regulatory clearance, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of these products or ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-clearance studies. Any of our future products, including the Cardica Microcutter ES8 and any future generations of the C-Port systems, may not obtain regulatory clearances or approvals required for marketing or may face these types of restrictions or requirements, particularly as the FDA is in the process of revising its 510(k) clearance system to, in certain cases, require human clinical data and to prohibit the combination of multiple predicate devices as the basis for a 510(k). The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval application, or PMA. The FDA will clear the marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product has the same intended use, is substantially equivalent to 27 Table of Contents another legally marketed device, including a 510(k)-cleared product, and otherwise meets the FDA’s requirements. We intend to seek 510(k) clearance for the Cardica Microcutter ES8. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and requires the development and submission of clinical studies supporting the safety and effectiveness of the device. Product modifications may also require the submission of a new 510(k) clearance or the approval of a PMA before the modified product can be marketed. Any products that we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval, including the Cardica Microcutter ES8, may not be approved on the timelines that we currently anticipate, if approved at all. We cannot assure that any new products or any product enhancements that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process instead of the more lengthy PMA requirements. Regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review, regulation and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our products will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the product. If our products fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may impose any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notifications, repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • delay in processing marketing applications for new products or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. To market any products internationally, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA clearance or approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA clearance or approval,including the risk that our products may not be approved for use under all of the circumstances requested, which could limit the uses of our products and adversely impact potential product sales, and that such clearance or approval may require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, the commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline. From time to time, we may estimate and publicly announce the timing anticipated for the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include submissions for and receipt of clearances or approvals from regulatory authorities, other clinical and regulatory events or the launch of new products. These estimates are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. In particular, our estimate of the timing of completion of development of the Cardica Microcutter ES8 and submission to the FDA for 510(k) clearance is subject to a number of risks related to development and regulatory matters that are discussed in this Annual Report. If we do not meet milestones as publicly announced, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline. 28 Table of Contents Our manufacturing facilities, and those of our suppliers, must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Failure of our manufacturing facilities to comply with quality requirements would harm our business and our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and processes are subject to periodic inspections and audits by various U.S. federal, U.S. state and foreign regulatory agencies. For example, our facilities have been inspected by State of California regulatory authorities pursuant to granting a California Device Manufacturing License and by the FDA. Additionally, to market products in Europe, we are required to maintain ISO 13485:2003 certification and are subject to periodic surveillance audits. We are currently ISO 13485:2003 certified; however, our failure to maintain necessary regulatory compliance and permits for our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products. Additionally, our manufacturing processes and, in some cases, those of our suppliers, are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products, including the PAS-Port and C-Port systems. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses. In addition, we must engage in extensive record keeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic inspections by governmental agencies, including FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. If we are given notice of significant violations in a QSR inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in, among other things, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of product distribution or other operating restrictions, seizures or recalls of our devices and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our products and cause our revenue to decline. We may also be required to recall our products due to manufacturing supply defects. If we issue recalls of our products in the future, our revenue and business could be harmed. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to market and sell our products, our business may be harmed. We have limited experience as a company in the sale, marketing and distribution of our products. Century Medical is responsible for marketing and commercialization of the PAS-Port system in Japan. To promote our current and future products in the United States and Europe, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating sufficient demand for our products. We have entered into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, which may result in lower product sales than if we directly marketed and sold our products. We expect to rely on third-party distributors for substantially all of our international sales. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. For our microcutter products, we will have to compete for sales and acceptance of our products against two large companies, Johnson & Johnson and Covidien, with large sales forces and dominant market positions. Lack of third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products could delay or limit their adoption. We may experience limited sales growth resulting from limitations on reimbursements made to purchasers of our products by third-party payors, and we cannot assure you that our sales will not be impeded and our business harmed if third-party payors fail to provide reimbursement that hospitals view as adequate. 29 Table of Contents In the United States, our products will be purchased primarily by medical institutions, which then bill various third-party payors, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administer the Medicare program, and other government programs and private insurance plans, for the health care services provided to their patients. The process involved in applying for coverage and incremental reimbursement from CMS is lengthy and expensive. Under current CMS reimbursement policies, CMS offers a process to obtain add-on payment for a new medical technology when the existing Diagnosis-Related Group, or DRG, prospective payment rate is inadequate. To obtain add-on payment, a technology must be considered “new,” demonstrate substantial improvement in care and exceed certain payment thresholds. Add-on payments are made for no less than two years and no more than three years. We must demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our technology to the FDA in addition to CMS requirements before add-on payments can be made. Further, Medicare coverage is based on our ability to demonstrate the treatment is “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries. In November 2006, CMS denied our request for an add-on payment with respect to our C-Port systems. According to CMS, we met the “new” criteria and exceeded the payment threshold but did not in their view demonstrate substantial improvement in care. Even if our products receive FDA and other regulatory clearance or approval, they may not be granted coverage and reimbursement in the foreseeable future, if at all. Moreover, many private payors look to CMS in setting their reimbursement policies and amounts. If CMS or other agencies limit coverage or decrease or limit reimbursement payments for doctors and hospitals, this may affect coverage and reimbursement determinations by many private payors. We cannot assure you that CMS will provide coverage and reimbursement for our products. If a medical device does not receive incremental reimbursement from CMS, then a medical institution would have to absorb the cost of our products as part of the cost of the procedure in which the products are used. Acute care hospitals are now generally reimbursed by CMS for inpatient operating costs under a Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. Under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system, acute care hospitals receive a fixed payment amount for each covered hospitalized patient based upon the DRG to which the inpatient stay is assigned, regardless of the actual cost of the services provided. At this time, we do not know the extent to which medical institutions would consider insurers’ payment levels adequate to cover the cost of our products. Failure by hospitals and physicians to receive an amount that they consider to be adequate reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used could deter them from purchasing our products and limit our revenue growth. In addition, pre-determined DRG payments may decline over time, which could deter medical institutions from purchasing our products. If medical institutions are unable to justify the costs of our products, they may refuse to purchase them, which would significantly harm our business. We have limited data regarding the safety and efficacy of the PAS-Port and C-Port systems. Any data that is generated in the future may not be positive or consistent with our existing data, which would affect market acceptance and the rate at which our devices are adopted. The C-Port and PAS-Port systems are innovative products, and our success depends upon their acceptance by the medical community as safe and effective. An important factor upon which the efficacy of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems will be measured is long-term data regarding the duration of patency, or openness, of the artery or the graft vessel. Equally important will be physicians’ perceptions of the safety of our products. Our technology is relatively new in cardiac bypass surgery, and the results of short-term clinical experience of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefit. We believe that physicians will compare long-term patency for the C-Port and PAS-Port devices against alternative procedures, such as hand-sewn anastomoses. If the long-term rates of patency do not meet physicians’ expectations, or if physicians find our devices unsafe, the C-Port and PAS-Port systems may not become widely adopted and physicians may recommend alternative treatments for their patients. In addition, we have recently commenced U.S. commercialization of our C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Any adverse experiences of physicians using the C-Port and PAS-Port systems, or adverse outcomes to patients, may deter physicians from using our products and negatively impact product adoption. 30 Table of Contents Our C-Port and PAS-Port systems were designed for use with venous grafts. Additionally, while our indications for use of the C-Port system cleared by the FDA refer broadly to grafts, we have studied the use of the C-Port systems only with venous grafts and not with arterial grafts. Using the C-Port systems with arterial grafts may not yield patency rates or material adverse cardiac event rates comparable to those found in our clinical trials using venous grafts, which could negatively affect market acceptance of our C-Port systems. In addition, the clips and staples deployed by our products are made of 316L medical-grade stainless steel, to which some patients are allergic. These allergies, especially if not previously diagnosed or unknown, may result in adverse reactions that negatively affect the patency of the anastomoses or the healing of the implants and may therefore adversely affect outcomes, particularly when compared to anastomoses performed with other materials, such as sutures. Additionally, in the event a surgeon, during the course of surgery, determines that it is necessary to convert to a hand-sewn anastomosis and to remove an anastomosis created by one of our products, the removal of the implants may result in more damage to the target vessel (such as the aorta or coronary artery) than would typically be encountered during removal of a hand-sewn anastomosis. Moreover, the removal may damage the target vessel to an extent that could further complicate construction of a replacement hand-sewn or automated anastomosis, which could be detrimental to patient outcome. These or other issues, if experienced, could limit physician adoption of our products. Even if the data collected from future clinical studies or clinical experience indicates positive results, each physician’s actual experience with our devices outside the clinical study setting may vary. Clinical studies conducted with the C-Port and PAS-Port systems have involved procedures performed by physicians who are technically proficient, high-volume users of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Consequently, both short- and long-term results reported in these studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results of practicing physicians, which could negatively impact rates of adoption of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems. Any clinical trials that we may conduct may not begin on time, or at all, and may not be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement or completion of any clinical trials that we may conduct may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities suspend or place on hold a clinical trial, or do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial; • the data and safety monitoring committee of a clinical trial recommends that a trial be placed on hold or suspended; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients are not followed-up at the rate we expect; • clinical trial sites decide not to participate or cease participation in a clinical trial; • patients experience adverse side effects or events related to our products; • patients die or suffer adverse medical effects during a clinical trial for a variety of reasons, which may not be related to our product candidates, including the advanced stage of their disease and other medical problems; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements; • third-party suppliers fail to provide us with critical components that conform to design and performance specifications; • the failure of our manufacturing processes to produce finished products that conform to design and performance specifications; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; 31 Table of Contents • the interim results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or negative; • pre-clinical or clinical data is interpreted by third parties in different ways; or • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy. Clinical trials sometimes experience delays related to outcomes experienced during the course of the trials. For example, in our PAS-Port pivotal trial, we had an administrative hold of the trial related to an adverse event, which lasted approximately 72 hours while the adverse event was investigated. The data safety monitoring board subsequently concluded that there was no clear evidence that our device had caused the adverse event, and enrollment continued. While this event was resolved in a timely manner and did not result in any material delay in the trial, future similar or other types of events could lead to more significant delays or other effects in future trials. Clinical trials may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient follow-up in clinical trials depend on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat a trial, terminate a trial or cancel an entire program. If the third parties on whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist with our pre-clinical development of product candidates. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control, such as changes in regulations, delays in enrollment, and the like. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, any clinical trials that we may conduct may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Because one customer accounts for a substantial portion of our product sales, the loss of this significant customer would cause a substantial decline in our revenue. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to Century Medical, our distributor in Japan. The loss of Century Medical as a customer would cause a decrease in revenue and, consequently, an increase in net loss. For fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, sales to Century Medical accounted for approximately 23% and 15%, respectively, of our total product sales. We expect that Century Medical will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales in the near term. As a result, if we lose Century Medical as a customer, our revenue and net loss would be adversely affected. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenue in the past may not generate revenue in any future period. The failure to obtain new significant customers or additional orders from existing customers will materially affect our operating results. 32 Table of Contents If our competitors have products that are approved in advance of ours, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be safer or more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated and our business will be harmed. The market for anastomotic solutions and cardiac bypass products is competitive. Competitors include a variety of public and private companies that currently offer or are developing cardiac surgery products generally and automated anastomotic systems specifically that would compete directly with ours. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the market for medical devices used in the treatment of coronary artery disease include: • improved patient outcomes; • access to and acceptance by leading physicians; • product quality and reliability; • ease of use; • device cost-effectiveness; • training and support; • novelty; • physician relationships; and • sales and marketing capabilities. We may be unable to compete successfully on the basis of any one or more of these factors, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of different technologies exist or are under development for performing anastomoses, including sutures, mechanical anastomotic devices, suture-based anastomotic devices and shunting devices. Currently, substantially all anastomoses are performed with sutures and, for the foreseeable future we believe that sutures will continue to be the principal alternative to our anastomotic products. Sutures are far less expensive than our automated anastomotic products, and other anastomotic devices may be less expensive than our own. Surgeons, who have been using sutures for their entire careers, may be reluctant to consider alternative technologies, despite potential advantages. Any resistance to change among practitioners could delay or hinder market acceptance of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Cardiovascular diseases may also be treated by other methods that do not require anastomoses, including, interventional techniques such as balloon angioplasty with or without the use of stents, pharmaceuticals, atherectomy catheters and lasers. Several of these alternative treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. In addition, technological advances with other therapies for cardiovascular disease, such as drugs, or future innovations in cardiac surgery techniques could make other methods of treating these diseases more effective or lower cost than bypass procedures. For example, the number of bypass procedures in the United States and other major markets has declined in recent years and is expected to decline in the years ahead because competing treatments are, in many cases, far less invasive and provide acceptable clinical outcomes. Many companies working on treatments that do not require anastomoses may have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and technical resources and experience than we have. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearance or approval and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and therapies that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment for clinical trials and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. 33 Table of Contents The Cardica Microcutter ES8, if it receives FDA clearance and is successfully launched, would compete in the market for laparoscopic stapling and cutting devices in the United States. We believe the principal competitive factors in the market for laparascopic staplers include: • reduced product size; • ease of use; • product quality and reliability; • multi-fire capability; • device cost-effectiveness; • degree of articulation; • physician relationships; and • sales and marketing capabilities. Two large competitors, Ethicon Endo-Surgery, part of Johnson & Johnson, and Covidien currently control over 80% of this market. Other large competitors in the laparoscopic device market include Stryker Endoscopy and Olympus which acquired another competitor, Gyrus Medical. Ethicon Endo-Surgery and Covidien, which recently acquired a small competitor, Power Medical, each have large direct sales forces in the United States and have been the largest participants in the market for single use disposable laparoscopic stapling devices for many years. Competing against large established competitors with significant resources may make establishing a market for our products difficult. We are dependent upon a number of key suppliers, including single source suppliers, the loss of which would materially harm our business. We use or rely upon sole source suppliers for certain components and services used in manufacturing our products, and we utilize materials and components supplied by third parties with which we do not have any long-term contracts. In recent years, many suppliers have ceased supplying materials for use in implantable medical devices. We cannot assure you that materials required by us will not be restricted or that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of such materials or services in the future. Moreover, the continued use by us of materials manufactured by third parties could subject us to liability exposure. Because we do not have long-term contracts, none of our suppliers is required to provide us with any guaranteed minimum production levels. We cannot quickly replace suppliers or establish additional new suppliers for some of our components, particularly due to both the complex nature of the manufacturing process used by our suppliers and the time and effort that may be required to obtain FDA clearance or approval or other regulatory approval to use materials from alternative suppliers. Any significant supply interruption or capacity constraints affecting our facilities or those of our suppliers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products and, therefore, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing experience and may encounter difficulties in increasing production to provide an adequate supply to customers. To date, our manufacturing activities have consisted primarily of producing moderate quantities of our products for use in clinical studies and for commercial sales in Japan, Europe and the United States. Production in increased commercial quantities will require us to expand our manufacturing capabilities and to hire and train additional personnel. We may encounter difficulties in increasing our manufacturing capacity and in manufacturing larger commercial quantities, including: • maintaining product yields; • maintaining quality control and assurance; • providing component and service availability; • maintaining adequate control policies and procedures; and • hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Difficulties encountered in increasing our manufacturing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture of our products is a complex and costly operation involving a number of separate processes and components. Any shipment delays could harm perception of our products and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, the current unit costs for our products, based on limited manufacturing volumes, are very high, and it will be necessary to achieve economies of scale to become profitable. Certain of our manufacturing processes are labor intensive, and achieving significant cost reductions will depend in part upon reducing the time required to complete these processes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve cost reductions in the manufacture of our products and, without these cost reductions, our business may never achieve profitability. We have considered, and will continue to consider as appropriate, manufacturing in-house certain components currently provided by third parties, as well as implementing new production processes. Manufacturing yields or costs may be adversely affected by the transition to in-house production or to new production processes, when and if these efforts are undertaken, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to retain key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Our business and future operating results depend significantly on the continued contributions of our key technical personnel and senior management, including those of our co-founder, CEO and President, Bernard Hausen, M.D., Ph.D. These services and individuals would be difficult or impossible to replace and none of these individuals is subject to a post-employment non-competition agreement. While we are subject to certain severance obligations to Dr. Hausen, either he or we may terminate his employment at any time and for any lawful reason or for no reason. Additionally, although we have key-person life insurance in the amount of $3.0 million on the life of Dr. Hausen, we cannot assure you that this amount would fully compensate us for the loss of Dr. Hausen’s services. The loss of key employees, the failure of any key employee to perform or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of June 30, 2010, we had 34 employees. Our business and future operating results depend significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel for our operations. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. We will need to maintain an appropriate level of managerial, operational, financial and other resources to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development activities and commercialize our products, and we expect our recent reductions in force will impair our ability to maintain or increase our product sales. It is possible that our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to maintain future operating activities, and we may be required to effect additional reductions in force. 35 Table of Contents We may in the future be a party to patent litigation and administrative proceedings that could be costly and could interfere with our ability to sell our products. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies in the industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. We may become a party to patent infringement claims and litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of these matters are both costly and time consuming. Additionally, we may need to commence proceedings against others to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings would result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. We are aware of patents issued to third parties that contain subject matter related to our technology. We cannot assure you that these or other third parties will not assert that our products and systems infringe the claims in their patents or seek to expand their patent claims to cover aspects of our products and systems. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe third-party patents, we could be required to pay treble damages in addition to other penalties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the medical device area have often been settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we may be required to redesign our products to avoid infringement, and it may not be possible to do so effectively. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling the C-Port or PAS-Port systems or any other product we may develop, which would have a significant adverse impact on our business. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely upon patents, trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. If any challenges are successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors or former or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent that our intellectual property protection is inadequate, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. In addition, competitors could purchase any of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts or design around our protected technology. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. 36 Table of Contents Our products face the risk of technological obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. There can be no assurance that third parties will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, new, less invasive surgical procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current procedures that use or could use our products. Accordingly, our success will depend in part upon our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development and introduction of new products. The relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval processes, train physicians in the use of our products, gain reimbursement acceptance, and supply commercial quantities of products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and we cannot assure you that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. We have experienced delays in completing the development and commercialization of our planned products, and there can be no assurance that these delays will not continue or recur in the future. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Foreign sales of our products are also subject to similar fraud and abuse laws, including application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our operations, including any consulting arrangements we may enter into with physicians who use our products, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims, which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention, and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company or our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, which would adversely affect our business. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of our products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Additionally, we are currently training physicians in the United States on the use of our C-Port and PAS-Port systems. During training, patients may be harmed, which could also lead to product liability claims. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, or their off-label use, regardless of their merits or outcomes, could harm our reputation in the industry, reduce our product sales, lead to significant legal fees, and result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. As of August 31, 2010, we were not aware of any existing product liability claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $5,000,000, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage to fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our operating results. Some of our customers and prospective customers may have difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operations and use of the C-Port or PAS-Port systems. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using the C-Port or PAS-Port systems and potential customers may opt against purchasing the C-Port or PAS-Port systems due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. 37 Table of Contents We sell our systems internationally and are subject to various risks relating to these international activities, which could adversely affect our revenue. To date, a substantial portion of our product sales has been attributable to sales in international markets. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because most of our sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international customer and, therefore, less competitive in international markets, which could affect our results of operations. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • export restrictions and controls relating to technology; • the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, impair our ability to market and sell our products and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Our operations are currently conducted at a single location that may be at risk from earthquakes, terror attacks or other disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing, development and management activities at a single location in Redwood City, California, near known earthquake fault zones. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, any future natural disaster, such as an earthquake, or a terrorist attack, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our insurance does not cover earthquakes and floods and may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. 38 Table of Contents If we use hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage, and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory clearances or approvals could be suspended or terminated. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or “off-label” uses. In relation to our products that have received FDA clearance or approval, our promotional materials and training methods regarding physicians need to comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and/or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of our products would be impaired. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may not be able to maintain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. On June 25, 2010, we announced that we received a letter, dated June 21, 2010, from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that we did not comply with the $50.0 million minimum market capitalization for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5450(b)(2)(A) or the Minimum Market Capitalization Standard. The NASDAQ Marketplace rules provide the Company with a grace period of 180 days, or until December 20, 2010 to regain compliance with the listing standards. On September 16, 2010, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that we had regained compliance with the Minimum Market Capitalization Standard. However, even though we regained compliance with the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, there is no assurance that in the future we will continue to satisfy such listing requirements, with the result that our common stock may be delisted from that market. If our stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may still meet the listing requirements for the NASDAQ Capital Market, including the requirement to have a minimum of $1.0 million in stockholders’ equity. If we are unable to list on The NASDAQ Capital Market, it would likely be more difficult to trade in or obtain accurate quotations as to the market price of our common stock. Delisting of our common stock would materially and adversely affect the market price and market liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise necessary capital. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • completion of development of our microcutter products, and the timing thereof; • market acceptance and adoption of our products; 39 Table of Contents • regulatory clearance or approvals of our products; • volume and timing of orders for our products; • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation; and • developments in our industry. In addition, the stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing stockholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together with other stockholders that own 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2010. Accordingly, these stockholders have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and continue to have significant influence over our operations. The interests of these stockholders may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and The Nasdaq Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional compliance costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by courts and regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Maintaining appropriate standards of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from product-generating and revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, if we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business and reputation may be harmed. 40 Table of Contents Our future operating results may be below securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The revenue and income potential of our products and our business model are unproven, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue or grow at the rate expected by securities analysts or investors. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: • completion of development of our microcutter products, and the timing thereof; • FDA or other regulatory clearance or approval of our products; • demand for our products; • the performance of third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers; • our ability to develop sales and marketing capabilities; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; and • our ability to obtain and protect proprietary rights. Our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indication of our future performance. In some future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decline. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts to change our direction or management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors with the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. 41 Table of Contents We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market in general, the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for medical device companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of medical device companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain to our stockholders for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 