Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. If any of these risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the value of our common shares could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We have recently changed our business model. From 2000 to late 2003, our business consisted of mineral exploration operations in Canada and Argentina. In 2003 and 2004 we disposed of, or abandoned, substantially all of our interests in mineral exploration properties. In 2004, we changed our name from Toby Ventures Inc. to Storm Cat Energy Corporation and began to focus on exploring conventional, unconventional and coalbed methane gas projects. In January 2004, we began acquiring exploration, development and/or production rights for coalbed methane and/or natural gas in Mongolia, Wyoming, Alaska and Canada. Our limited financial history makes it difficult for us to project our revenues, expenses, and potential for successful development of these exploration properties. Price volatility may affect our financial condition. The prices of oil and natural gas are volatile and our operating results and future rate of growth depend heavily on prevailing market prices for these resources. A substantial or extended decline in prices for these resources would have a material adverse effect on us. These prices are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, the effects of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and gas, the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls, actions of governmental authorities, the availability of transportation facilities, increased production due to new discoveries or improved recovery techniques and weather conditions. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete with other energy development companies for properties, equipment, materials and labor. Our industry is highly competitive in all aspects. Many of our competitors have larger operations and greater financial resources than we do. Competition in our business may adversely affect our ability to acquire properties, equipment and materials, attract and retain qualified labor, and attract the necessary capital to sustain our resource exploration and production in the future. Oil and gas exploration is a speculative undertaking. Oil and gas exploration is a speculative business. Our future success depends on our ability to economically locate oil and gas production and reserves in commercial 8 quantities. Our anticipated exploration and development activities are subject to reservoir and operational risks. Even when oil and gas is found in what are believed to be commercial quantities, reservoir risks, which may be heightened in new discoveries, may lead to higher costs and/or lower production than originally anticipated. These risks include the inability to sustain deliverability at commercially productive levels as a result of decreased reservoir pressures, large amounts of water, or other factors that might be encountered. The effects of these factors may result in Storm Cat not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. Reserves are imprecise estimates. The information on reserves provided in this Annual Report and other filings with the SEC are estimates of our reserves and the future revenues from these reserves. If the assumptions underlying these estimates prove to be incorrect, the quantity of our reserves and our future cash flows could be materially different from these estimates. We face operating risks in our exploration and production activities. Our business involves operating risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, leaks, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks, any one of which can cause personal injury, damage to property, equipment and the environment, as well as interruption of our operations. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. If any of these events occurred, we could face substantial losses that could reduce or even eliminate funds available for our operations. Our industry is highly regulated. Our business is heavily regulated by federal, state, and local authorities. These regulations control many aspects of our business including, among other things, land use, prospecting, the drilling and spacing of wells, protection of ground water, conservation of soil, safety standards, site reclamation, restoration, exports, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances and other matters. The regulations and laws governing our industry are under constant review and may be amended or expanded. Regulation increases the cost of doing business and decreases profitability. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may be subject to substantial penalties or suspension or termination of our operations. Our operations are subject to complex environmental regulations. Our current and anticipated future operations require permits from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and such operations are and will be regulated by laws and regulations governing various elements of the oil and gas industries. We cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how in the future laws and regulations will be 9 administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands lying within wetland areas, areas providing for habitat for certain species or other protected areas. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital expenditures, may materially affect the results of our operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all permits required for future exploration on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations, or new legislation or modifications to existing legislation, will not have an adverse effect on any project we might undertake. Our failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing our operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. We have a history of net losses. Since our incorporation in May of 2000, we have experienced annual net losses. In the year ended December 31, 2005 we had a net loss of $8,367,697 and our cumulative net loss from date of our incorporation to December 31, 2005 is $9,760,993. There is no guarantee as to when, if ever, we will realize a net profit. We have limited cash flow to support our capital needs and will require additional capital to fund our operations. Only a limited number of our projects have advanced to the commercial production stage and we have no history of positive cash flow to support our operations. Even if our current exploration programs are successful, we will require additional capital to complete future exploration activities and fund our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to reduce or discontinue our activities, forfeit our interest in properties and/or reduce or terminate our operations, which would likely have a negative effect on our share price. We have not paid dividends on our common shares since incorporation and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. 10 We may not be able to obtain additional funding to meet our capital needs and if we raise additional capital through equity, present and prospective shareholders may realize significant dilution. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in raising additional capital or be able to obtain financing on favorable terms. Historically, our only source of funds has been through the sale of our common shares. Any transaction involving the issuance of previously authorized but unissued shares of common shares or securities convertible into common shares will result in dilution, which could be substantial, to holders of our common shares. We operate in international markets, which subject us to additional risks. We operate in a number of countries, subjecting our business to risks that often characterize international markets, including economic and political instability; longer payment cycles; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; licensing requirements; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; potentially adverse tax consequences and fluctuations in exchange rates. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business. We maintain accounts in U.S. and Canadian dollars. A material decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar could negatively impact our income statement and share price. We depend on certain key personnel. We strongly depend on the business and technical expertise of our management and key personnel, particularly that of our President and Chief Executive Officer, J. Scott Zimmerman and our Chief Financial Officer, Paul Wiesner. There is little possibility that this dependence will decrease in the near term. We carry no “key man” life insurance on any of our executives. As our operations expand, we will require additional key personnel and related resources. Some of our officers and directors serve as officers and directors of other companies. Some of our officers and directors are also officers, directors or shareholders of other companies including those that are similarly engaged in the business of acquiring, developing and exploiting oil and gas producing properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of Storm Cat and to disclose any interest that they may have in any Storm Cat project or opportunity. Further, we have an internal conflict policy, which is sometimes referred to as the Policy, and a Code of Ethics, both which address directors’ conflicts of interest. Under the Policy, if a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of our Board, any director with a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matters. In making the determination as to whether or not we will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to us and our financial position at that time. 11 We focus heavily on risky unconventional plays, which rely on technological advances that in the future may not be effective. The unconventional plays are a central element of our business model. The development of typical unconventional plays may involve greater extraction and retrieval costs than are involved in development of typical conventional plays. Often the quality of gas and commercial viability is less known in a typical unconventional play. Therefore, the process of developing an unconventional play involves significant expenditures before commercial viability can be ascertained and presents a risk of cost overruns and inadequate gas recovery. Although unconventional coalbed methane wells can be shallower and less costly to drill than conventional natural gas wells, the speculative nature of these unconventional plays may lead them to be unprofitable undertakings. Further, technological innovation is a key component to realizing the economic value of unconventional plays. We continue to explore and rely on advances in technologies such as drilling, well completion and geophysical technologies that have helped the viability of the unconventional play. We expect future advances in technology to continue to make the unconventional play a superior model to a conventional play. The continued advancement of such technologies, however, is uncertain and even if developed and advanced, such technologies may not be effective. Coal bed methane may not continue to rise as an energy source in the United States. Currently, coalbed methane accounts for over 9% of U.S. natural gas production. While we expect this figure to continue to rise, there can be no guarantee that it will continue to do so. If demand for coalbed methane is flat or decreases, our business model could prove unsuccessful and our share price could decline. We may incur compression difficulties and expense. As production increases, more compression is generally required to maximize the production flowing through the pipeline. Production costs increase as additional compression is required, primarily because the compression process requires more fuel. In addition, the compression process is a mechanical process, and should a breakdown occur we will be unable to deliver gas until repairs to the machinery are completed. If we are not successful in acquiring and developing producing properties, we may be unable to expand our business and be competitive in our industry. We anticipate that a significant portion of our growth will be the result of acquisition and the exploitation of gas producing properties. We expect to continue to evaluate and pursue acquisition opportunities available on terms management considers favorable. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of recoverable reserves, future gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond our control. This assessment is necessarily inexact and its accuracy is inherently uncertain. It will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and 12 structural and environmental problems are not always observable even when inspection is undertaken. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be successful, and any unsuccessful acquisition could be costly, damaging to our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have contracts to sell gas for some of our properties and any contracts we are able to secure may not be long-term contracts. As of December 31, 2005, the Corporation does have short term forward gas sales contracts of a small percentage of our gas production. Please see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure contracts for the sale of gas on any or all of our properties, nor is there any assurance that if we are able to do so that any of these will be long-term contracts. If we are able to obtain contracts of the desired duration, there is still no assurance as to what gas prices the contracts will provide. Pipeline capacity may be inadequate. Due to the nature of natural gas development, during certain time periods, pipeline capacity may be inadequate to meet our transportation needs. Often, as new development comes on-line, existing pipelines may be close to or at capacity for a period of time before new pipelines are built. During periods when pipeline capacity is inadequate to meet demand, we may be forced to reduce production or incur additional expense as existing production is compressed to fit into existing pipelines. We do not obtain title insurance or other warranties of title with our leases and working interests. We do not obtain title insurance or other guaranty or warranty of good title with our gas leases and well working interests. Title insurance is not available for subsurface leases. Accordingly, third parties may assert claims against our legal entitlement to the gas leases and working interests being acquired, irrespective of our leases and working well interests. In order to alleviate this risk, we require a title search and title opinion on all leases prior to drilling. There is no assurance, however, that all title defects will be cured prior to drilling. Risks Related To Our Common Shares U.S. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process against some of our Canadian directors. We are incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process in the United States upon our directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). A judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon such civil 13 liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or Storm Cat predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. We are a “Foreign Private Issuer” and exempt from the Section 16 and the Proxy Rules of Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the U.S. federal securities laws, we are a “foreign private issuer.” Unless and until such time as we become a “U.S. Issuer” under these laws, we are not subject to certain regulation under U.S. securities laws, such as Section 16 and the Proxy Rules of Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Further, as a foreign private issuer, we make our Annual Report on Form 20-F and report our current events, including the dissemination of proxy materials and information regarding our annual meeting of shareholders, on Form 6-K. These disclosure obligations may result in the reduced availability public information regarding us, compared to the disclosure required of U.S. Issuers under U.S. federal securities laws. Our common shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our common shares are traded primarily on the American Stock Exchange and on the TSX Venture Exchange. Trading in our common shares on these markets is effected in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the American Stock Exchange and Canadian dollars on the TSX Venture Exchange) and at different times, as the result of different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Canada. Consequently, the trading prices of our common shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described herein as well as differences in exchange rates and from political events and economic conditions in the United States and Canada. Any decrease in the trading price of our common shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common shares on the other market. We are subject to the Continued Listing Criteria of The American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”). Our common shares are currently listed on AMEX. In order to maintain our listing on AMEX, we must maintain certain share prices, financial and distribution targets, including maintaining a minimum amount of shareholders’ equity and a minimum number of public shareholders. In addition to objective standards, AMEX may delist the securities of any issuer if in its opinion, the issuer’s financial condition and/or operating results appear unsatisfactory; if it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make further dealings on AMEX inadvisable; if the issuer sells or disposes of principal operating assets or ceases to be an operating company; if an issuer fails to comply with AMEX’s listing requirements; if an issuer’s common shares sell at what AMEX considers a “low selling price” and the issuer fails to correct this via a reverse split of shares after notification by 14 AMEX; or if any other event shall occur or any condition shall exist which makes further dealings with AMEX, in its opinion, unadvisable. If AMEX delists our common shares, investors may face material adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, a lack of trading market for our securities, decreased analyst coverage of our securities, and an inability for us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. Our share price has fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common shares, as well as the price of shares of other energy companies, has been volatile. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: • Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; • Shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; • Announcements concerning us or our competitors; • Changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • General market conditions and changes in market conditions in our industry; and • The general state of the securities market. In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on AMEX and the TSX Venture Exchange, generally, and trading in shares of energy companies, specifically, has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. In addition, if we issue additional shares in financings or acquisitions, our shareholders will experience additional dilution and the existence of more shares could decrease the amount that purchasers are willing to pay for our common shares. 