Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating the business of Transcept, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect Transcept business, results of operations, financial condition or your investment in Transcept securities, and many are beyond Transcept control. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of the above risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that Transcept faces. In the following discussion, “Transcept” refers to the public company formerly known as Novacea, Inc. and now known as Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and (as successor to the business of the private company formerly known as Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or TPI, that is now the wholly owned subsidiary of Transcept following the merger of TPI and Novacea) also relates to activities taking place with respect to the business of TPI prior to the merger of TPI and Novacea. For further discussion of the merger of TPI and Novacea, see the section entitled “Business—Background and Merger of Novacea, Inc. and Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc.” Transcept has had a brief operating history that may make it difficult for you to evaluate the potential success of its business and has a history of incurring losses. Transcept was founded in January 2001 under its former name Novacea, Inc., and in January 2009 underwent a merger with TPI, a private company founded in 2002 whose business is currently conducted by Transcept. Transcept, in continuing the business of TPI, remains a development stage company. Transcept operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing, acquiring, developing and securing its technology and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials. Transcept has not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval and manufacture marketed products to U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory standards or to conduct sales and marketing activities. Consequently, any predictions you make about the future success or viability of Transcept may not be as accurate as they would be if Transcept had a longer operating history. Furthermore, the business of Transcept that is being continued from TPI is not profitable and has incurred losses in each year since its inception. TPI net loss for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $20.0 million, $20.4 million and 13.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, TPI had an accumulated deficit of $65.1 million. Transcept expects to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and expects its accumulated deficit to increase as it continues its research, development and commercialization efforts with respect to Intermezzo® and other product candidates. If Intermezzo® or other Transcept product candidates do not gain or maintain regulatory approval or market acceptance, Transcept may never become profitable or may not be able to sustain profitability, even if achieved. The success of Transcept depends substantially on its ability to obtain regulatory approval for its lead product candidate, Intermezzo®. The success of Transcept depends substantially on obtaining regulatory approval for its most advanced product candidate, Intermezzo®, for use as needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle of the night awakening is followed by difficulty returning to sleep, or middle of the night awakening. Regulatory approval to market pharmaceutical products in the United States requires the completion of extensive non-clinical and clinical evaluations of a product candidate, referred to as clinical trials, to demonstrate substantial evidence of safety and efficacy of the candidate, as well as development of manufacturing processes that demonstrate the ability to reliably and consistently produce the candidate under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. Each of these elements requires pharmaceutical development companies to exercise certain judgments concerning applicable regulatory requirements and to predict what the regulatory authority will ultimately deem acceptable. There can be no assurance that the results of the clinical trials for Intermezzo® or its 27 Table of Contents manufacturing processes will satisfy the regulatory requirements for approval. A failure to meet these requirements would significantly delay or prevent approval of Intermezzo® and seriously harm the ability of Transcept to generate revenue. The FDA required Transcept to complete at least two adequate and well-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials for the Intermezzo® indication before submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA. These trials were completed, and Transcept submitted the NDA for Intermezzo® on September 30, 2008, which was accepted for filing on December 15, 2008. Although Transcept analyses of the two Phase 3 studies of Intermezzo® indicated that their primary endpoints were met, the FDA may not agree with these analyses and may require that Transcept complete additional expensive and time consuming studies or perform other testing to support an approval. In addition, although the FDA agreed to accept pharmacokinetic data for approval of the 1.75 mg elderly dose, the FDA may change its position during the course of its NDA review. The FDA has not approved a pharmaceutical product specifically to treat middle of the night awakening. There can be no assurance that the FDA will approve this new indication within the insomnia category, or that the FDA will not require additional clinical trials for one or both doses, or for special population subgroups, to support potential marketing approval for Intermezzo® in this new indication. While Transcept believes that the results of the clinical trials for Intermezzo® meet FDA guidance to support potential approval of Intermezzo®, the FDA may not agree or may reconsider its guidance, require more clinical trials or otherwise require additional data or studies to justify this new indication in the insomnia market for which approval of Intermezzo® is being sought. If Transcept does not obtain regulatory approval for Intermezzo® specifically to treat middle of the night awakening, the ability of Transcept to market Intermezzo® will be eliminated or substantially impaired, and the business of Transcept will suffer. Transcept is seeking approval for Intermezzo® under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which permits applicants to rely in part on clinical and non-clinical data generated by third parties. Specifically, Transcept is relying in part on third party data with respect to zolpidem, which is the active ingredient in Intermezzo® and the previously approved insomnia products Ambien® and Ambien CR®. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not require Transcept to conduct additional non-clinical or clinical studies or otherwise obtain new supplementary data with respect to some or all of the data upon which Transcept intends to rely. In addition, Transcept has limited experience in preparing, submitting and prosecuting regulatory filings, including NDAs and other applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. If Transcept does not receive regulatory approval from the FDA, Transcept will not be able to commercialize Intermezzo® in the United States. Further, if the FDA delays approval as a result of requirements to conduct additional clinical studies, commercialization of Intermezzo® could be significantly delayed. Significant delay or the inability to commercialize Intermezzo® in the United States would significantly harm Transcept business and financial prospects. If Transcept is unable to establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure or enter into strategic alliances to perform these functions, it may not be successful in commercializing its product candidates. In order to commercialize Intermezzo® or any other product candidates successfully, Transcept must acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and/or enter into strategic alliances to perform these services. Transcept intends to develop its own specialty sales force to initially target high prescribers of sleep medicines, but has no experience in building a sales and marketing organization. The development of sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure is difficult, time consuming and requires substantial financial and other resources. If Transcept cannot successfully develop the infrastructure to market and commercialize Intermezzo®, its ability to generate revenues may be harmed, and Transcept may be required to enter into strategic alliances to have such activities carried out on its behalf, which may not be on favorable terms. Factors that may hinder Transcept efforts to develop an internal sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure include: • inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; 28 Table of Contents • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe Transcept products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put Transcept at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen delays, costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. Transcept intends to enter into one or more strategic alliances to further address the U.S. market and to potentially address markets outside the United States. Transcept may not be able to enter into any such alliance on acceptable terms, if at all, and may face competition in its search for alliance partners. If Transcept is not able to collaborate with an alliance partner, its efforts to commercialize Intermezzo® may be less successful. Transcept may require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed. TPI had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $11.7 million at December 31, 2008. Transcept estimated in connection with its recently completed merger that the combined cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of TPI and Novacea on January 30, 2009 was estimated to be approximately $92 million. Subsequent to the close of the merger in the first quarter of 2009, Transcept paid financial advisory fees incurred in connection with the merger of $2.0 million and retired in full all remaining debt of TPI owed to Hercules Technology Growth Capital for $2.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, TPI used cash of $20.1 million in operating activities. Transcept expects its negative cash flows from operations to continue for the foreseeable future and beyond potential regulatory approval and product launch of Intermezzo®. Transcept expects that negative cash flows from operations will increase relative to its historic use of cash as a result of additional administrative, accounting, and legal costs associated with being a public company. In addition, Transcept expects to incur substantial expenses relating to the potential commercial launch of Intermezzo®. If management’s assumptions concerning the timing of potential product approval and launch prove incorrect as a result of FDA or other regulatory approval delays or other factors, the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of Transcept may prove insufficient to fund Transcept operations through the commercial launch of Intermezzo®. Transcept expects to deploy a substantial majority of the available cash toward the development of sales and marketing programs for Intermezzo®. As a result, the development and potential regulatory approval of additional Transcept product candidates is likely to require additional funding which may not be available at and as of the time needed on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If Intermezzo® does not gain regulatory approval or does not achieve market acceptance, Transcept will not generate any revenue. Transcept cannot assure you that it will ever be profitable even if it commercializes Intermezzo®. If Transcept fails to achieve and maintain profitability, or if it is unable to fund its continuing losses, investors could lose all or part of their investment. Intermezzo® and other Transcept product candidates may not achieve market acceptance even if Transcept obtains regulatory approvals. Even if Transcept receives regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of Intermezzo® or other product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend upon, among other things, acceptance by physicians and patients. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that Transcept develops and commercializes will depend on many factors, including: • the ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy of Intermezzo®, or future products for their respective indications; • the ability to obtain adequate pricing and sufficient insurance coverage and reimbursement; • the availability, relative cost and relative efficacy and safety of alternative and competing treatments; 29 Table of Contents • the effectiveness of Transcept or its alliance partner’s sales, marketing and distribution strategies; and • the ability to produce commercial quantities sufficient to meet demand. If Intermezzo® or other Transcept product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, Transcept may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue its business. Transcept will face substantial competition from large companies with established products. Transcept is seeking approval of Intermezzo® for use as needed for the treatment of insomnia when a middle of the night awakening is followed by difficulty returning to sleep, an indication that Transcept believes represents an opportunity in the broader insomnia therapeutic market. The insomnia market is large, deeply commercialized and characterized by intense competition among large, established pharmaceutical companies with well funded and staffed sales and marketing organizations and far greater name recognition than Transcept. If Intermezzo® receives marketing approval, it will compete in this large market against well-established branded products with significant advertising support, as well as with generic competitors selling zolpidem and other sleep aids at a fraction of the price at which Transcept will most likely seek to sell Intermezzo®. Transcept believes that Intermezzo® , if approved, will be the first sleep aid approved by the FDA specifically for use in the middle of the night when patients awaken and have difficulty returning to sleep. However, currently marketed seven to eight hour therapeutics can also treat this condition when used to deliver a prophylactic dose at the beginning of the night. The most directly competitive currently-marketed products in the United States are Ambien® and Ambien CR®, marketed by Sanofi-Aventis, and the multiple generic manufacturers of zolpidem. Zolpidem, in both its branded and generic forms, is the most widely-prescribed drug in the United States for treatment of insomnia. Additionally, Lunesta®, marketed by Sepracor, Inc., can similarly treat middle of the night awakenings by providing a prophylactic dose at bed-time in order to avoid a middle of the night awakening, and short duration products such as Sonata, marketed by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., have been used off-label for the as-needed treatment of middle of the night awakenings. Other drugs, such as the antidepressant generic trazadone, are also widely prescribed off-label for the treatment of insomnia. Other companies may develop products to compete with Intermezzo®. Transcept is aware of several products currently in development which may compete with Intermezzo®. Neurocrine Biosciences received an approvable letter, pending additional clinical and pre-clinical studies, from the FDA for its product candidate, indiplon, proposed to be used for sleep initiation and middle of the night dosing. There are many other companies working to develop new products and other therapies to treat insomnia, including but not limited to Orexo AB, NovaDel Pharma, Inc., Sanofi-Aventis, Eli Lilly and Company, GlaxoSmithKline in conjunction with Actelion Ltd., and Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Several of these compounds are already marketed for other indications, and some, including Zolpimist™, an orally administered spray for which NovaDel Pharma, Inc. received marketing approval from the FDA in December 2008, and Edluar™, a sublingual tablet for which Orexo received marketing approval from the FDA in March 2009, use zolpidem as the active pharmaceutical ingredient and are formulated for the purported absorption of zolpidem across the tissues of the mouth. NovaDel Pharma, Inc. also recently announced that it commenced development of a low-dose version of Zolpimist™ for the treatment of middle-of-the-night awakenings with the intent to enter such product candidate into clinical trials. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of treating conditions, occur in the biopharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. Any of these developments may negatively affect the commercial prospects of Intermezzo®. Many potential competitors, either alone or together with their partners, have substantially greater financial resources, research and development programs, clinical trial and regulatory experience, expertise in prosecution of intellectual property rights, and manufacturing, distribution and sales and marketing capabilities than Transcept. As a result of these factors, these competitors may: • develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive, safer, more effective than current product candidates and contemplated future products of Transcept; 30 Table of Contents • commercialize competing products before Transcept can launch Intermezzo® or other product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than Transcept can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic alliances; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than Transcept. Governmental and third-party payors may impose restrictions or reimbursement or pricing controls that could limit product revenues. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may reduce potential revenues Transcept may receive from sales of Intermezzo®, if approved. In particular, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for Intermezzo® or other Transcept products, especially in light of the availability of low-cost generic zolpidem therapeutics, regardless of the fact that such products are not specifically designed or indicated to specifically treat middle of the night awakening. Government and third-party payors could also impose price controls and other conditions that must be met by patients prior to providing coverage for use of Transcept products. For example, insurers may establish a “step-edit” system that requires a patient to utilize a lower price alternative product prior to becoming eligible for reimbursement of a higher price product. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for Transcept products, or if price controls, prior authorization or step-edit systems are enacted, Transcept product revenues will suffer. Negative publicity and documented side effects concerning products used to treat patients in the insomnia market may harm the ability of Transcept to commercialize Intermezzo® or other product candidates. Products containing zolpidem, the active ingredient in Intermezzo®, are widely marketed. Zolpidem use has been implicated with negative effects, such as sleepwalking and amnesia, and has the potential to cause physical or psychological dependence. Furthermore, zolpidem is classified as a Schedule IV substance under the Comprehensive Drug Abuse and Prevention Control Act of 1970, and is subject to certain packaging, prescription and purchase volume limitations. There can be no assurance that additional negative publicity or increased governmental controls on the use of zolpidem or other compounds used in products for the insomnia market would not inhibit or prevent Transcept from commercializing Intermezzo® or other product candidates. Furthermore, negative publicity concerning zolpidem and other hypnotic pharmaceuticals could cause the FDA to make approval of new products for the insomnia market more difficult, by requiring additional or different non-clinical or clinical studies or taking other actions, out of safety or other concerns, or could lead to reduced consumer usage of sleep aids, including both zolpidem products and Intermezzo®. If Transcept enters into strategic alliances to market Intermezzo® or for other purposes it will be dependent upon the efforts of its alliance partners. Although Transcept believes that it has sufficient resources to carry out its plans to commercialize Intermezzo® to psychiatrists and high-prescribing physicians on its own, Transcept intends to enter into one or more strategic alliances to commercialize Intermezzo®, if approved, and may decide to enter into additional strategic alliances for the development of other product candidates. Any strategic alliance Transcept enters into may contain unfavorable terms, for example, with respect to product candidates covered, control over decisions and responsibilities, termination rights, payment, and other significant terms. The ability of Transcept to receive any significant revenue from its product candidates covered by a strategic alliance will be dependent on the efforts of the alliance partner and may result in lower levels of income to Transcept than if Transcept marketed or developed its product candidates entirely on its own. The alliance partner may not fulfill its obligations or carry out marketing activities for Transcept product candidates as diligently as Transcept would like. Transcept could 31 Table of Contents also become involved in disputes with its partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If an alliance partner terminates or breaches its agreement, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or marketing Transcept product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, depending upon the alliance partner that Transcept chooses, other companies that might otherwise be interested in developing or marketing products with Transcept could be less inclined to do so because of the relationship of Transcept with the alliance partner. If the ability of Transcept to work with present or future alliance partners is adversely affected as a result of a collaboration agreement, Transcept business prospects may be limited and the financial condition of Transcept may be impaired. There can be no assurance that Transcept will be able to enter into such a strategic alliance, or that if Transcept does, it is on a time frame and on economic terms that are favorable to Transcept. Even if Transcept product candidates receive regulatory approval, they will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and may face regulatory or enforcement action. Any product candidate for which Transcept receives regulatory approval, together with related third-party manufacturing facilities and processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for the product, will be subject to significant review, oversight and ongoing and changing regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements may subject Transcept to administrative and judicially-imposed sanctions. These may include warning letters, adverse publicity, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizures or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, and refusal to approve pending product marketing applications. Even if Transcept receives regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be conditioned on Transcept conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the indicated uses included in Transcept labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force Transcept to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay the ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. The FDA has also requested that all manufacturers of sedative-hypnotic pharmaceutical products modify their product labeling to include strong language concerning potential risks. These risks include severe allergic reactions and complex sleep-related behaviors, which may include sleep-driving. The FDA also recommended that pharmaceutical manufacturers conduct clinical studies to investigate the frequency with which sleep-driving and other complex behaviors occur in association with individual drug products. Transcept has not conducted such studies, and it is unclear how and to what extent, if any, these requests and recommendations will affect Intermezzo® or other Transcept product candidates. If the manufacturers upon whom Transcept relies fail to produce in the volumes and quality that Transcept requires on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical manufacturers, Transcept may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, its products, if any, and may lose potential revenues. Transcept does not manufacture Intermezzo®, and it does not plan to develop the capacity to do so. Transcept has a primary manufacturing and supply agreement with Patheon, Inc. to manufacture commercial supply of Intermezzo®. Transcept also has agreements with Mikart, Inc. to qualify it as a backup commercial supplier of finished product, as well as a backup commercial manufacturer of a key excipient used in the manufacture of Intermezzo®, Anderson Packaging, Inc. as a primary packager of Intermezzo®, and Sharp Corporation to supply sample packaging. Transcept relies upon SPI Pharma, Inc. as a supplier for certain key excipients contained within Intermezzo®, for one of such excipients as the sole source, and upon Plantex USA, Inc. as its sole source for a special form of zolpidem tartrate. These agreements have set terms of duration, some of which automatically renew for successive one or three year periods. The first to expire among these 32 Table of Contents agreements, the Packaging and Supply Agreement with Anderson Packaging, Inc., has a term that ends in September of 2011, although such agreement automatically renews for one year periods thereafter. A further description of the terms of these agreements is set forth in the section entitled “Transcept Business—Manufacturing.” The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Transcept third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements. Additionally, Transcept third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes, unstable political environments at foreign facilities or financial difficulties. For example, a supplier with a manufacturing facility in Israel may face geopolitical risk that could prevent it from providing supplies from such facility. If these manufacturers or key suppliers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, the ability of Transcept to launch Intermezzo® or any other product candidate, if approved, would be jeopardized. In addition, all manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of Transcept third-party manufacturer and key supplier facilities as part of its review of any Transcept NDAs. If Transcept third-party manufacturers and key suppliers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval, particularly if these sites are supplying single source ingredients required for the manufacture of Intermezzo®. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Furthermore, regulatory qualifications of manufacturing facilities are applied on the basis of the specific facility being used to produce supplies. As a result, if a manufacturer for Transcept shifts production from one facility to another, the new facility must go through a complete regulatory qualification process and be approved by regulatory authorities prior to being used for commercial supply. Transcept manufacturers may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to a Transcept third-party manufacturer or key supplier failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, Transcept may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize its products. Transcept does not have alternate manufacturers qualified at this time with respect to the commercial supply of Intermezzo®, nor does it have alternate manufacturers identified or qualified with respect to the commercial supply of several of the key ingredients and packaging materials used in Intermezzo®. If Transcept needs to change to other manufacturers, prior approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulators will be required. In addition, Transcept would likely have to incur significant costs and expend significant efforts to educate the new manufacturer with respect to, or to help the new manufacturer independently develop, the processes necessary for production. Manufacturing and supply switching costs in the pharmaceutical industry can be very high, and switching manufacturers or key suppliers can frequently take 12 to 18 months to complete, although in certain circumstances such a switch may be significantly delayed or prevented by regulatory and other factors. Any of these factors could cause Transcept to delay or suspend regulatory submissions, required regulatory approvals or commercialization of Intermezzo® or any other product candidate that Transcept develops, entail higher costs or result in Transcept being unable to effectively commercialize its products, if any are approved. Furthermore, if Transcept manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of raw materials, including active pharmaceutical ingredient, key excipients or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, Transcept would be unable to meet demand for its products and it would lose potential revenues. 33 Table of Contents Transcept clinical trials may fail to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of its product candidates, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval and commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of Transcept product candidates, Transcept must demonstrate through lengthy, complex and expensive preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective for use in each target indication. The results obtained in completed clinical trials and non-clinical studies may not be predictive of results from ongoing or future trials. Transcept trial results may be negatively affected by factors that had not been fully anticipated prior to commencement of the trial. Such trials may fail to demonstrate efficacy in the treatment of the intended disorder. Although Transcept designs its clinical trial protocols to address known factors that may negatively affect results, there can be no assurance that protocol designs will be adequate or that factors that Transcept may or may not be aware of or anticipate will not have a negative effect on the results of its clinical trials. Once a study has commenced, Transcept may voluntarily suspend or terminate the study if at any time it believes that there is an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Clinical trials in other indications or in different or progressively larger patient populations could reveal more frequent, more severe or additional side effects that were not seen in earlier studies. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of Transcept product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities stopping further development of or denying approval of Transcept product candidates. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, Transcept may decide to repeat or redesign a trial, modify its regulatory strategy or even discontinue development of one or more of its product candidates. If Transcept product candidates are not shown to be both safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other compounds and conducting associated non-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on Transcept business, financial condition and results of operations. Transcept relies on third parties to conduct its non-clinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, Transcept may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for its product candidates. Transcept does not currently conduct non-clinical and clinical trials on its own, and instead relies on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist it with its non-clinical and clinical trials. Transcept is also required to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If these third parties did not successfully carry out their duties with regard to Intermezzo® development, or fail to successfully carry out their duties to Transcept as it relates to meeting future regulatory obligations or expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtained during the development of Intermezzo® or in the future is compromised due to the failure to adhere to Transcept clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, Transcept non-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and Transcept may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for its product candidates, including Intermezzo®. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to Transcept and delay its ability to generate revenues. Transcept does not know whether future clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be disrupted for a variety of reasons, including difficulties in: • addressing issues raised by the FDA regarding safety, design, scope and objectives of clinical studies; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial; 34 Table of Contents • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. A clinical trial may also be suspended or terminated by Transcept or the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or in accordance with Transcept clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; or • inadequate patient enrollment or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and Transcept may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes, which could impact the cost, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If Transcept experiences delays in the commencement or completion of its clinical trials, the commercial prospects for its product candidates and its ability to generate product revenues will be harmed. Many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Transcept may face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against it, Transcept may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit such candidate’s commercialization. The use of Transcept product candidates (including those pursued by Novacea prior to the merger of Novacea and TPI) in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which Transcept obtains marketing approval exposes it to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against Transcept by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling Transcept products. If Transcept cannot successfully defend itself against these claims, it will incur substantial liabilities. Transcept is also obligated under certain circumstances to indemnify suppliers and others with whom it has contractual relationships for product liability claims such entities might incur with respect to Transcept products and product candidates. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for Transcept products; • impairment of the business reputation of Transcept; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize Transcept product candidates. Although Transcept currently has product liability insurance coverage for its clinical trials with limits that it believes are customary and adequate to provide it with coverage for foreseeable risks associated with Transcept development efforts, this insurance coverage may not reimburse it or may be insufficient to reimburse it for the actual expenses or losses Transcept may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly 35 Table of Contents expensive and, in the future, Transcept may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect it against losses due to liability. Transcept intends to expand its insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if it obtains marketing approval for Intermezzo®, but it may be unable to obtain such product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. Transcept depends on key personnel and if Transcept is not able to retain them, its business will suffer. Transcept is highly dependent on the principal members of its management and scientific staff, including but not limited to Glenn A. Oclassen, its President and Chief Executive Officer, and Nikhilesh N. Singh, its Chief Scientific Officer. The competition for skilled personnel among biopharmaceutical companies in the San Francisco Bay Area is intense and the employment services of Transcept scientific, management and other executive officers are terminable at-will. If Transcept loses one or more of these key employees, its ability to implement and execute its business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in the biopharmaceutical industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Transcept does not carry key man life insurance on any of its key personnel other than Nikhilesh N. Singh. If Transcept does not raise additional capital, it may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate its development programs and commercialization efforts. The future capital requirements of Transcept will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the costs and timing of regulatory approval; • the need to conduct additional clinical trials; • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities; • the rate of progress and cost of Transcept clinical trials and other development activities; • the extent to which Transcept acquires or in-licenses new products, technologies or businesses; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. Transcept may need to seek additional funding through strategic alliances or through public or private sales of its equity securities. In addition, Transcept may obtain equipment leases and may pursue opportunities to obtain debt financing in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that strategic alliances, additional equity or debt financing will be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, Transcept may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of its then existing or planned development, commercialization or expansion activities. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict Transcept operations or require Transcept to relinquish proprietary rights. To the extent that Transcept raises additional capital by issuing equity securities, the existing Transcept stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing Transcept enters into may involve covenants that restrict its operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of Transcept assets, as well as prohibitions on the ability of Transcept to create liens, pay dividends, redeem its stock or make investments. In addition, if Transcept raises additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to Transcept. 36 Table of Contents The commercial success, if any, of Intermezzo® depends, in part, on the rights Transcept is seeking through certain patent applications. The potential commercial success of Intermezzo® depends on patents that may issue in connection with two families of patent applications that Transcept has pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, each family covering, respectively, certain formulations and/or methods of use of zolpidem. In addition, Transcept has pending certain foreign equivalent patent applications with respect to formulations and manufacture of zolpidem for use in treatment of middle of the night awakening, as well as applications covering combinations and methods of use of ondansetron in conjunction with atypical antipsychotic drugs. There can be no assurance that the pending patent applications of Transcept, those applications Transcept may file in the future, or those applications Transcept may license from third parties, will result in patents being issued in a timely manner, or at all. Even if patents issue, the claims in such patents may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to Transcept, may not encompass Intermezzo® or other Transcept product candidates and their unique features, and may not provide Transcept with proprietary protection or competitive advantages. For instance, competitors may be able to engineer around the Transcept formulation patent applications with alternate formulations that deliver therapeutic effects similar to potential products covered by the Transcept zolpidem formulation patent applications. Other drug companies may also be able to develop generic versions of Transcept products if Transcept is unable to maintain its proprietary rights. For example generic drug makers may attempt to introduce generic low dose zolpidem products similar to Transcept products immediately after the expiration of Hatch-Waxman marketing exclusivity and prior to the expiration of patents that may be issued relating to Intermezzo®. Furthermore, among other limitations, the method of use patent applications that have been filed to encompass Intermezzo® are limited in scope to certain uses of zolpidem, so potential competitors could develop similar products using active pharmaceutical ingredients other than zolpidem. Any patents Transcept has obtained or does obtain may be challenged by re-examination, opposition, or other administrative proceeding, or may be challenged in litigation, and such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid. The active, and many of the inactive, ingredients in Intermezzo®, including generically manufactured zolpidem, have been known and used for many years and, therefore, are no longer subject to patent protection. Accordingly, certain of the Transcept pending patent applications are directed to the particular formulations of these ingredients in Transcept products, and their use. Although Transcept believes its formulations and their use are patentable and provide a competitive advantage, even if such patents are issued, such patents may not prevent others from marketing formulations using the same active and inactive ingredients in similar but different formulations. Moreover, if Transcept patents were successfully challenged and ruled to be invalid, Transcept would be exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. Failure to obtain effective patent protection for Intermezzo® and other Transcept product candidates would allow for products to be marketed by competitors that would undermine Transcept sales, marketing and collaboration efforts, and reduce or eliminate Transcept revenues. In addition, both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. If Transcept is unable to maintain and enforce its proprietary rights, Transcept may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. The commercial success of Transcept will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection, trade secret protection and regulatory protection of its proprietary technology and information as well as successfully defending against third-party challenges to its proprietary technology and information. Transcept will be able to protect its proprietary technology and information from use by third parties only to the extent that it has valid and enforceable patents, trade secrets or regulatory protection to cover them and it has exclusive rights to utilize them. The commercial success of Transcept will continue to depend in part on the patent rights it owns, the patent rights it has licensed, the patent rights of its suppliers and the patent rights Transcept plans to obtain related to future products it may market. The success of Transcept also depends on its and its licensors’ and suppliers’ 37 Table of Contents ability to maintain these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. Further, Transcept does not fully control the patent prosecution of the patents and patent applications it has licensed. There is a risk that licensors to Transcept will not devote the same resources or attention to the prosecution of the licensed patent applications as Transcept would if it controlled the prosecution of the patent applications, and the resulting patent protection, if any, may not be as strong or comprehensive as if Transcept had prosecuted the applications itself. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of Transcept intellectual property. Accordingly, Transcept cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in its patents or in third-party patents. For example: • Transcept or its licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications and issued patents; • Transcept or its licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any Transcept technologies; • it is possible that none of the pending Transcept patent applications or any pending patent applications of Transcept licensors will result in issued patents; • Transcept patents, if issued, and the issued patents of Transcept licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide Transcept with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • Transcept may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on the business of Transcept. Transcept also relies on trade secrets to protect its technology, especially where it does not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While Transcept seeks to protect confidential information, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors, they may unintentionally or willfully disclose Transcept information to competitors. If Transcept was to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using Transcept trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. If Transcept is not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of its technologies and product candidates, then Transcept will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and Transcept may not generate enough revenue from product sales, if any, to justify the cost of development of Transcept product candidates and to achieve or maintain profitability. If Transcept is sued for infringing intellectual property rights of other parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on the business of Transcept. Although Transcept believes that it would have valid defenses to allegations that its current product candidates, production methods and other activities infringe the valid and enforceable intellectual property rights of any third parties of which it is aware, Transcept cannot be certain that a third party will not challenge its position in the future. Other parties may own patent rights that might be infringed by Transcept products or other activities. There has been, and Transcept believes that there will continue to be, significant litigation and 38 Table of Contents demands for licenses in the life sciences industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Competitors or other patent holders may assert that Transcept products and the methods Transcept employs are covered by their patents. These parties could bring claims against Transcept that would cause it to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against Transcept, could cause it to pay substantial damages or possibly prevent it from commercializing its product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against Transcept, Transcept could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, Transcept may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if Transcept was able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, Transcept could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of its business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, Transcept or its collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm the business of Transcept significantly. Transcept may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. In the event a competitor infringes upon a Transcept patent or other intellectual property right, litigation to enforce Transcept intellectual property rights or to defend Transcept patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from Transcept management. Transcept may not have sufficient resources to enforce Transcept intellectual property rights or to defend Transcept patents against challenges from others. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Transcept could therefore become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of Transcept management’s time and efforts, and require Transcept to pay damages. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Transcept competitors may assert that they own U.S. or foreign patents containing claims that cover Transcept products, components of Transcept products, or the methods Transcept employs in making or using Transcept products. In addition, Transcept may become a party to an interference proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine the priority of inventions. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, and in many instances, at least 18 months to publish, there may be applications now pending of which Transcept is unaware, which may later result in issued patents that contain claims that cover Transcept products. There could also be existing patents, of which Transcept is unaware, that contain claims that cover one or more components of its products. As the number of participants in Transcept’s industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any interference proceeding, litigation, or other assertion of claims against Transcept may cause Transcept to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on Transcept financial resources, divert the attention of Transcept management from Transcept core business and harm Transcept’s reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and Transcept was found to infringe, it could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling Transcept products unless Transcept could obtain a license or were able to redesign its products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If Transcept fails to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to Transcept products or technologies, it may be unable to make, use, sell, or otherwise commercialize one or more of its products. In addition, if Transcept is found to willfully infringe, it could be required to pay treble damages, among other penalties. 39 Table of Contents If Transcept fails to comply with its obligations in the agreements under which it licenses rights to products or technology from third parties, Transcept could lose license rights that are important to its business. Transcept is a party to a number of agreements that include technology licenses that are important to its business and expects to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, Transcept holds licenses from SPI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. relating to key excipients used in the manufacture of Intermezzo®. If Transcept fails to comply with these agreements, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, in which event Transcept would not be able to market products covered by the license, including Intermezzo®. Transcept may be subject to damages resulting from claims that Transcept or its employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of former employers. Many Transcept employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against Transcept are currently pending, Transcept may be subject to claims that these employees or Transcept itself have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If Transcept fails in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, it may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent the ability of Transcept to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm its business. Even if Transcept is successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If Transcept agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners fail to protect its intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets, it could have a significant adverse effect on Transcept. Transcept has taken steps to protect its intellectual property and proprietary technology, by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with its employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for Transcept trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and Transcept may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and Transcept does not know whether the steps it has taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect Transcept intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The stock price of Transcept is expected to be volatile. The market price of Transcept common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of Transcept common stock to fluctuate include: • the ability of Transcept to obtain regulatory approvals for Intermezzo® or other product candidates, and delays or failures to obtain such approvals; • failure of any product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • issues in manufacturing approved products, if any, or product candidates; • the results of current and any future clinical trials of Transcept product candidates; • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key commercial partner agreements; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend Transcept intellectual property rights or defend against the intellectual property rights of others; 40 Table of Contents • announcements by commercial partners or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • adverse publicity relating to the insomnia market, including with respect to other products and potential products in such market; • the introduction of technological innovations or new therapies that compete with potential products of Transcept; • the loss of key employees; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover Transcept common stock; • future sales of Transcept common stock; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect Transcept research and development expenditures; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of Transcept common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm the profitability and reputation of Transcept. Anti-takeover provisions in charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of Transcept more difficult and may prevent attempts by stockholders to replace or remove management. Provisions in certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Transcept may delay or prevent an acquisition or a change in management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of stockholders and the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because Transcept is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with Transcept. Although Transcept believes these provisions collectively will provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with the Transcept board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace or remove then current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of management. Transcept has never paid dividends on its capital stock, and does not anticipate that it will pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Transcept has not paid cash dividends on any of its classes of capital stock to date, and the current expectation of Transcept is that it will retain its future earnings to fund the development and growth of its business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of Transcept common stock will be the sole source of gain, if any, for the foreseeable future. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause the stock price of Transcept to decline. If existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of common stock in the public market after the lock-up and other legal restrictions on resale entered into by securityholders of Transcept 41 Table of Contents in connection with the merger of Novacea and TPI lapse, the trading price of the common stock of Transcept could decline. Based on shares outstanding as of January 30, 2009, Transcept had a total of approximately 13.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, only approximately 4.6 million shares of common stock were not subject to lock-up agreements. The lock-up agreements entered into in connection with the merger of TPI and Novacea provide that 50% of the shares subject to the lock-up agreements will be released from such restrictions three months from the January 30, 2009 closing date, and the remainder of the shares subject to such restrictions will be released six months from such closing date. After the last period of the lock-up agreements expire, based on shares outstanding as of January 30, 2009, up to an additional approximately 8.5 million shares of common stock will cease to be subject to lock-up agreements, approximately 8.1 million of which will be held by Transcept directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 1,631,454 shares of common stock that are subject to outstanding options of Transcept as of January 30, 2009 will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of Transcept common stock could decline. If the ownership of Transcept common stock is highly concentrated, it may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause the stock price of Transcept to decline. Executive officers, directors of Transcept and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 64% of the outstanding shares of Transcept common stock as of January 30, 2009. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Transcept or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of Transcept, even if such a change of control would benefit the other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of Transcept common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 